
How did Nasa's Suni and Butch fill nine months in space?
1 day ago
Share
Save
Tim Dodd
Climate and science reporter
Share
Save
NASA
The crew aboad the International Space Station sent Christmas greetings last year and enjoyed a space-food festive "feast"
Voting, enjoying Christmas dinner and keeping fit in zero gravity - that's just some of what has kept Butch Wilmore and Suni Williams busy during their prolonged stay on the International Space Station (ISS).
After nine months, the pair are finally making their way home in a SpaceX Dragon capsule.
So what has life been like for the Nasa astronauts orbiting 250 miles (400km) above us, and how have they passed the time?
Advertisement
Stranded astronauts Butch and Suni begin journey home
Astronauts reveal what life is like on ISS – and how they deal with 'space smell'
Of course there was a lot of serious space stuff to keep them occupied.
Suni, 59, and Butch, 62, have been helping ongoing missions at the station with maintenance and experiments, and have conducted spacewalks.
Suni ventured outside
in mid-January with fellow astronaut Nick Hague to perform repairs on the craft. She and Butch went out together later in the month.
Their tasks included repairing equipment that governs station orientation, adding light filters on the NICER X-ray telescope, and replacing a reflector device on an international docking adapter.
Advertisement
Reflecting on planet Earth
Butch and Suni have taken the situation in their stride, saying in a news conference in September that
they have been trained to "expect the unexpected"
.
They have definitely had opportunities for reflection about life back home - and for watching a lot of sunrises and sunsets.
0:12
Watch: Space station timelapse shows stunning 'orbital sunrise' over Earth
Advertisement
As the space station makes 16 orbits of Earth every 24 hours, it travels through 16 sunrises and sunsets, treating those on board to a sunrise or sunset every 45 minutes.
Living with such a unique view of the Earth gives plenty of room for contemplating it, something Suni has acknowledged.