
Ireland's time-warped island of Owey is the perfect place to disconnect
3 March 2025
Share
Save
Julie Diamond
Share
Save
Alamy
(Credit: Alamy)
Located off Donegal's coast, this car-free isle was last inhabited full-time in the '70s. Now, locals are resurrecting a lost way of life – and adventurous travellers are welcome.
Friday night on Owey Island and it's like we've been time-warped into the Ireland of years gone by. Smoke from burning turf fills the air as the small cluster of locals potter in and out of their well-maintained houses, sharing freshly caught fish and odd jobs. Friendly dogs roam free and chickens strut about. And as the roar of the sea and rustling of the reeds harmonise with warm, convivial chatter, it's hard to believe this lively haven lay dormant for decades.
Located off the coast of west Donegal in the Atlantic Ocean, the remote island of Owey (or
Uaigh
in Irish, meaning "cave") is approximately 15 minutes by boat from
Cruit Island
, which is joined to the mainland via a short car bridge. There is no ferry service to Owey, visitors can only access the island by kayak or private boat. There's also no electricity or running water, so only the distant lights twinkling from the mainland hint of civilisation – and modern-day pressures – further away.
Last inhabited full-time in the 1970s, the island was home to around 100 residents and about 30 families at its pinnacle. But the lure of modern conveniences on the mainland led to a dwindling population, with the last remaining islanders leaving in 1977 and the place lying abandoned for more than 25 years.
I was spending a long weekend on Owey with the
Wild Women of the Woods (Northern Ireland)
, an organisation of more than 4,000 members that aims to connect women from all over Ireland to experience nature and adventure together in wild, untamed settings. Outdoor enthusiast Rachel Pedder, who set up the organisation, wanted to bring the group "somewhere that was off the beaten track and not generally accessible".