
Why Vermont farmers are using urine on their crops
1 March 2025
Share
Save
Becca Warner
Share
Save
Rich Earth Institute
In Vermont, pasteurised urine is sprayed on local farmland to fertilise crops (Credit: Rich Earth Institute)
Urine was used as fertiliser in ancient Rome and China. Now farmers in Vermont are bringing this practice back to boost harvests and grow crops in a more sustainable way.
When Betsy Williams goes to the loo, she likes to know her pee won't go to waste. For the last 12 years, she and her neighbours in rural Vermont, US, have diligently collected their urine and donated it to farmers for use as fertiliser for their crops.
"We're consuming all of these things that have nutrients in them, and then a lot of the nutrients that are passing through us can then get recycled back into helping create food for us and for animals. So to me, it's logical," Williams says.
Williams takes part in the Urine Nutrient Reclamation Program (UNRP), a programme run by the Rich Earth Institute (REI), a non-profit based in Vermont. She and 250 of her neighbours in Windham County donate a total of 12,000 gallons (45,400 litres) of urine to the programme each year to be recycled – or "peecycled".
Windham County's pee-donations are collected by a lorry and driven to a large tank where the urine is pasteurised by heating it to 80C (176F) for 90 seconds. It is then stored in a pasteurised tank, ready to be sprayed on local farmland when the time is right to fertilise crops.
Advertisement
Records suggest that urine was used to help grow crops back in
ancient China
and
ancient Rome
. Today, scientists are finding that it can
more than double the yield
of crops like kale and spinach compared to no fertiliser, and
improve yields
even in low fertility soils.
Urine's power as a fertiliser is due to the nitrogen and phosphorus that it
contains
– the same nutrients that are added to the synthetic fertilisers used on many conventional farms. But these synthetic fertilisers come at an environmental cost. Nitrogen is produced using the
fossil fuel-intensive
Haber-Bosch process, and the mining of phosphorus creates harmful amounts of
toxic waste
. Urine, meanwhile, is freely available – as Williams puts it, "everybody pees. [It's an] untapped resource".