
Visiting Antarctica or the Arctic? Here's how to minimise your impact
23 hours ago
Share
Save
Thea de Gallier
Share
Save
Alamy
(Credit: Alamy)
As polar tourism surges, experts warn of its environmental impact. From transport choices to local food, here's how to visit responsibly while protecting fragile ecosystems.
I first learned of Greenland's existence from a world map pinned on my childhood bedroom wall. Decades later, I finally made it to the capital, Nuuk. I'd long been fascinated by pictures of the brightly coloured wooden houses lining its rocky shores – red, yellow, green and blue against an icy backdrop. Small icebergs floated just offshore and the absence of trees gave a stark, otherworldly feel. I looked forward to experiencing the crisp, biting air, exploring Inuit art at the
Nuuk Kunstmuseum
and maybe, if I was lucky, spotting some seals or a passing whale.
I'm not the only one entranced by Greenland's icy beauty: between 2018-2023, tourism to the country
grew by 46%
, with 131,767 visitors arriving in 2023. Much of this surge is due to the increasing number of cruise ships navigating Arctic waters.
According to the Arctic Council, ships entering the Arctic Polar Code area  – a regulated maritime zone around the North Pole – increased by
37%
between 2013 and 2024. Many cruise operators, like Hurtigruten, Swan Hellenic and Ponant, offer routes encompassing Iceland, Svalbard and Greenland, with the latter expecting
visitor numbers to keep growing
thanks to a 2024 airport expansion in Nuuk and two more international airports set to be built by 2026.
Meanwhile on the opposite side of the planet, Antarctica is seeing a similar tourism boom. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) reports a steady rise in visitors since the 1990s. In the 2022-23 season,
104,897 people
visited the continent, rising to
124,262 last year
. More than 80,000 of those set foot on Antarctic land – an alarming statistic for conservationists who warn that human presence can disrupt fragile ecosystems, alter animal behaviour and unwittingly bring invasive foreign organisms with them.
Advertisement
Alamy
The polar regions are threatened – and travellers can make careful choices to lessen their impact (Credit: Alamy)
As tourism to the poles increases, organisations like the Arctic Council, the Association of Arctic Expedition Cruise Operators (AECO) and Visit Greenland stress the urgent need to balance economic benefits with environmental responsibility. The lure of the polar regions is undeniable: the near lunar landscapes; the intensity of the blue sky on a freezing, sunny day; the thrill of fresh snow crunching underfoot; and the unique wildlife that calls these places home.
James Grecian, a marine ecologist at Durham University, UK, and scientist-in-residence at climate advocacy nonprofit
Arctic Basecamp
, has spent years studying polar wildlife. Last year, he was in Antarctica studying snow petrels – or more specifically, their vomit.
Thoughtful Travel
Want to travel better?
Thoughtful Travel
is a series on the ways people behave while away, from ethics to etiquette and more.
Snow petrels' stomach oil deposits freeze into solid lumps that contain, when analysed in a lab, data on how their diet has changed over the years, and in turn, what that means about the local ecosystem. "We can tell a lot about past conditions by taking samples from the environment, or from animals," Grecian explains. "For example, the baleen plates of whales can be taken from dead animals, and the chemical signatures will tell you something about the environmental conditions or what the animal was eating."
Advertisement
As a fairly frequent polar visitor, he understands the appeal of these environments – and also the impact. He notes there are choices we can make to reduce the damage to these vital but threatened regions. Polar tourism is showing no signs of slowing down, but Grecian hopes that, with increased awareness of its drawbacks, visitors can make the most ethical choices possible. Here are his suggestions on how to do that.
James Grecian
Marine ecologist James Grecian has spent years studying 