
Why is China spending billions to get people to open their wallets?
1 day ago
Share
Save
Yi Ma
BBC News
Reporting from
London
Share
Save
Getty Images
Beijing hopes that welfare measures and deep discounts can encourage spending
The Chinese government has promised new child care subsidies, increased wages and better paid leave to revive a slowing economy. That is on top of a $41bn discount programme for all sorts of things, from dishwashers and home decor to electric vehicles and smartwatches.
Beijing is going on a spending spree that will encourage Chinese people to crack open their wallets.
Simply put, they are not spending enough.
Monday brought some positive news. Official data said retail sales grew 4% in the first two months of 2025, a positive sign for consumption data. But, with a few exceptions like Shanghai aside, new and existing home prices continued to decline compared to last year.
While the US and other major powers have struggled with post-Covid inflation, China is experiencing the opposite: deflation - when the rate of inflation falls below zero, meaning that prices decrease. In China, prices fell for 18 months in a row in the past two years.
Prices dropping might sound like good news for consumers. But a persistent decline in consumption - a measure of what households buy - signals deeper economic trouble. When people stop spending, businesses cut prices to attract buyers. The more this happens, the less money they make, hiring slows, wages stagnate and economic momentum grinds to a halt.
That is a cycle China wants to avoid, given it's already battling sluggish growth in the wake of a prolonged crisis in the property market, steep government debt and unemployment.
Advertisement
Three reasons Trump tariffs aren't China's only problem
China says it is ready for 'any type of war' with US
The cause of low consumption is straightforward: Chinese consumers either don't have enough money or don't feel confident enough about their future to spend it.
But their reluctance comes at a critical moment. With the economy aiming to grow at 5% this year, boosting consumption is a top priority for President Xi Jinping. He is hoping that rising domestic consumption will absorb the blow US tariffs will inflict on Chinese exports.
So, will Beijing's plan work?
Advertisement
China is getting serious about spending
To tackle its ailing economy and weak domestic demand, Beijing wrapped up its annual National People's Congress last week with increased investment in social welfare programmes as part of its grand economic plan for 2025.
Then came this week's announcement with
bigger promises, such as employment support plans
, but scant details.
Some say it is a welcome move, with the caveat that China's leaders need to do more to step up support. Still, it signals Beijing's awareness of the changes needed for a stronger Chinese consumer market - higher wages, a stronger social safety net and policies that make people feel secure enough to spend rather than save