
Eight of the world's most extraordinary tiny hotel rooms
27 December 2024
Share
Save
Deborah Nicholls-Lee
Share
Save
Natura Vive
In Peru’s Sacred Valley, transparent sleeping pods cling to the cliff face (Credit: Natura Vive)
From Colombia's upcycled sewer pipes to spheres suspended in the sky in Canada, capsule hotels have been reinvented for a new generation of travellers.
By night, the
world's first capsule hotel
(founded in Osaka, Japan in 1979) must have looked like a morgue, with neat rows of narrow sleeping capsules each containing a recumbent body. But the following day, the occupants – mostly businessmen who had worked late - would rise up and head back to the office, grateful for this efficient sleep solution that had saved them a commute home in the early hours.
As the concept spread, tourists happy to sleep in a room no bigger than its bed began to bunk up alongside them, eager to sample this unusual aspect of Japanese culture. Fast-forward to today, and high hotel room rates, fuelled by
years of rising real estate prices
, have supercharged this typically low-cost concept, which offers budget travellers priced out of traditional hotels more privacy than a hostel dormitory and more comfort and connectivity than camping. The capsules, which are predominantly single-occupancy, also answer the current
boom in solo travel
, with single-sex capsule hotels providing additional security.
With the global capsule hotel market
projected
to reach $327m by 2031, curious hybrids have emerged to sustain the trend and attract new customers. They're tempting the TikTok generation with increasingly outlandish forms, from
upcycled sewer pipes
in the Colombian desert to
space-age pods
with a dashboard of ambient controls in downtown Sydney, Australia – all promising a unique experience and shareable stories for social media. Meanwhile
capsule-cum-bookstores
invite book lovers to snooze among the shelves, and boutique versions bring luxury to a traditionally no-frills market with
fancy decor
or promises of
fluffy duck-feather duvets
.
As the concept continues to reinvent itself, here are eight of the most extraordinary examples.