
The explosive potential of custard powder
2 days ago
Share
Save
Veronique Greenwood
Share
Save
Getty Images
(Credit: Getty Images)
Custard powder makes a delicious dessert but also has a rather less savoury potential – in certain conditions, it can be a powerful explosive.
Instant custard powder is a staple of many kitchens. Just add water and heat, and the powdery mixture of cornstarch and flavourings will transform into an unctuous treat. It's hard to imagine anything more inoffensive. But on 18 November 1981, at the Bird's Custard factory in Oxfordshire, the substance showed its dark side. A hopper of powder overflowed, and the resulting dust cloud ignited, exploding into flame.
Nine people were injured in the explosion. They were lucky – powder explosions can be lethal. Fourteen people were
killed in Minnesota in 1871
when a flour mill went up. Forty-four people, including a child,
lost their lives to a cornstarch-based explosion in 1919 in Cedar Rapids, Iowa
, which levelled part of the town. "The main explosion seemed to lift great buildings and hold them in tension for a moment, letting them drop with their own weight," one observer wrote later.
Dust explosions, of various substances, have continued to take lives – in 2014,
97 people died when dust in a factory in Kunshan, China, ignited
. In 2022,
one industry report counted 50 such explosions globally
, although not all of them involved foodstuffs.
Alamy
Custard powder uses starch instead of eggs to thicken, and boomed in popularity because it was portable and storable (Credit: Alamy)
How can the makings for a simple dessert cause carnage, though? In all dust explosions, there are a few common factors. The powder must be made of a flammable substance – that means you're safe from sand, which is made of minerals like silica. But flour, cornstarch, sugar, coal dust, powdered plastic, and aluminium powder can all burn, meaning that if they get airborne, the risk for a truly devastating explosion goes up.
That's because, suspended in a cloud, all those particles have an enormous surface area exposed to oxygen. That makes them swift to combust. If a few of them heat up to ignition – and in each of these cases, there was a source of heat like friction or static electricity involved – then the fire can spread almost instantaneously to the rest of the cloud. Like a pile of confetti ignited in a fireplace, suspended dust burns fast.
Advertisement
Look at a spoonful of cornstarch or custard powder, and it is nearly impossible to imagine it as an engine of destruction
That evening at the Bird's Custard factory, there were 20 workers on duty. Several noticed that cornstarch was pouring out of the top of one of the bins,
according to the accident report
. "At this point several witnesses saw a flash near the top of the bin and a wall of flame spreading outwards and downwards from the bin top," the report continues. "Descriptions were of a gale-force wind with a flame front behind, which flashed through the area." Later inspection revealed that the machinery meant to pour cornstarch into various bins had malfunctioned, so cornstarch continued to pour into the container until it overflowed.
Keeping the risk of such explosions down means coming at the problem from many angles – grounding all the machines in a factory to reduce static electricity, building in filtration systems that remove dust from the air, and diligent patrolling for any dust