
Mürren: The stunning car-free village reached by cable car
3 days ago
Share
Save
Shikha Shah
Share
Save
Schilthorn Cableway Ltd
(Credit: Schilthorn Cableway Ltd)
Throughout history, this medieval hamlet has remained relatively secluded from the outside world. But now, the world's steepest cable car whisks travellers to the 430-person village.
On a freezing day in December 2024, I took a scenic three-hour train ride from Geneva to
Lauterbrunnen
, an Alpine village nestled between
Interlaken
and the Jungfrau massif in central Switzerland. I was now at the gateway to the car-free mountain hamletof
Mürren
.
For most of Mürren's history, residents would lead their mules three hours down to gather essential supplies in the valley before trekking back up. Then in 1891, a narrow-gauge railway opened, connecting Mürren to the nearby mountain village of Grütschalp and a funicular that reached Lauterbrunnen. In 1965, a single-track cableway opened that could ferry residents down to another traffic-free village, Gimmelwald, above the valley.
But the day I arrived, this formerly secluded 430-person hamlet perched 1638m in the
Bernese Oberland
became directly connected with the outside world and valley below through the opening of the world's steepest cable car: the
Schilthornbahn
, which whisks travellers 775m up through some of the Swiss Alps' most jaw-dropping scenery in just four minutes.
Schilthorn Cableway Ltd
The world's steepest cableway now connects the medieval village of Mürren with the valley below (Credit: Schilthorn Cableway Ltd)
Advertisement
After arriving at the
Stechelberg car park,
I was soon being hoisted from the valley floor up in a glass-enclosed cabin, staring down towards the storybook cottages below and surrounded by craggy mountains and snow-covered pines. The trip up the vertical Mürrenfluh rockface was so smooth that I barely noticed the 159.4% gradient (the world's previous steepest cable car, the
Loen Skylift
in Norway, rises 133%), until my ears started to pop.
Perched on a natural terrace at the foot of the
Schilthorn
summit (2970m) overlooking the Lauterbrunnen valley, Mürren is a 13th-Century village with traditional stone and timber cottages that looks like it's clinging to the edge of a cliff. Because of its unique position, engineers have never been able to connect it to the outside world by road.
"