PART ONE
Mariam was five years old the first time she heard the word harami
It happened on a Thursday. It must have, because Mariam remembered that she had beerrestless and preoccupied that day, the way she was only on Thursdays, the day when Jalivisited her at the kolba. To pass the time until the moment that she would see him at lastcrossing the knee-high grass in the clearing and waving, Mariam had climbed a chair andtaken down her mother's Chinese tea set. The tea set was the sole relic that Mariam'smother, Nana, had of her own mother, who had died when Nana was two. Nana cherishedeach blue-and-white porcelain piece, the graceful curve of the pot's spout, the hand-paintedfinches and chrysanthemums, the dragon on the sugar bowl, meant to ward off evil.
It was this last piece that slipped from Mariam's fingers, that fell to the wooden floorboards of the kolba and shattered.
When Nana saw the bowl, her face flushed red and her upper lip shivered, and her eyesboth the lazy one and the good, settled on Mariam in a flat, unblinking way. Nana lookedso mad that Mariam feared the jinn would enter her mother's body again. But the jinn didn'come, not that time. Instead, Nana grabbed Mariam by the wrists, pulled her close, andthrough gritted teeth, said, "You are a clumsy little harami This is my reward foreverything I've endured An heirloom-breaking, clumsy little harami.
At the time, Mariam did not understand. She did not know what this wordharami--bastard--meant Nor was she old enough to appreciate the injustice, to see that it isthe creators of the harami who are culpable, not the harami, whose only sin is being bornMariam did surmise, by the way Nana said the word, that it was an ugly, loathsome thing tobe a harami, like an insect, like the scurrying cockroaches Nana was always cursing andsweeping out of the kolba.
Later, when she was older, Mariam did understand. It was the way Nana uttered the wordnot so much saying it as spitting it at her that made Mariam feel the full sting of it. Sheunderstood then what Nana meant, that a harami was an unwanted thing; that she, Mariamwas an illegitimate person who would never have legitimate claim to the things otherpeople had, things such as love, family, home, acceptance