Leaflets
At dusk they pour from the sky. They blow across the ramparts, turn cartwheels over rooftops, flutteiinto the ravines between houses. Entire streets swirl with them, flashing white against the cobblesUrgent message to the inhabitants ofthis town, they say. Depart immediately to open country.The tide climbs. The moon hangs small and yellow and gibbous. On the rooftops of beachfronhotels to the east, and in the gardens behind them, a halfdozen American artillery units dropincendiary rounds into the mouths of mortars.
Bombers
Ihey cross the Channel at midnight. There are twelve and they are named for songs: Stardust ancStormy Weather andIn the Mood and Pistol-Packin’Mama. The sea glides along far belowspattered with the countless chevrons of whitecaps. Soon enough, the navigators can discern the lowmoonlit lumps ofislands ranged along the horizon.France.
Intercoms crackle. Deliberately, almost lazily, the bombers shed altitude. Threads of red lighascend from anti-air emplacements up and down the coast. Dark, ruined ships appear, scutled ordestroyed, one with its bow shorn away, a second flickering as it burns. On an outermost islandpanicked sheep run zigzagging between rocks.Inside each airplane, a bombardier peers through an aiming window and counts to twenty. Foutfive six seven. To the bombardiers, the walled city on its granite headland, drawing ever closerlooks like an unholy tooth, something black and dangerous, a final abscess to be lanced away.
The Girl
In a corner of the city, inside a tall, narrow house at Number 4 rue Vauborel, on the sixth and highestfloor, a sightless sixteen-year-old named Marie-Laure LeBlanc kneels over a low table coveredentirely with a model. The model is a miniature of the city she kneels within, and contains scalereplicas of the hundreds of houses and shops and hotels within its walls. There's the cathedral withits perforated spire, and the bulky old Chateau de Saint-Malo, and row after row of seaside mansionsstudded with chimneys. A slender wooden jetty ares out firom a beach called the Plage du Mole; adelicate, reticulated atrium vaults over the seafood market; minute benches, the smallest no largerthan apple seeds, dot the tiny public squares.Marie-Laure runs her fingertips along the centimeter-wide parapet crowning the ramparts, drawingan uneven star shape around the entire model. She finds the opening atop the walls where fourceremonial cannons point to sea. “Bastion de la Hollande," she whispers, and her fingers walk downa little staircase.“Rue des Cordiers. Rue Jacques Cartier.”In a corner of the room stand two galvanized buckets filled to the rim with water. Fill them up, hergreat-uncle has taught her, whenever you can. The bathtub on the third floor too. Who knows when the
water will go out again.Her fingers travel back to the cathedral spire. South to the Gate of Dinan. All evening she has beenmarching her fingers around the model, waiting for her great-uncle Etienne, who owns this housewho went out the previous night while she slept, and who has not returned. And now it is night again.another revolution ofthe clock, and the whole block is quiet, and she cannot sleep.She can hear the bombers when they are three miles away. A mounting static. The hum inside a
seashell.When she opens the bedroom window, the noise of the airplanes becomes louder. Otherwise, thenight is dreadfully silent: no engines, no voices, no clatter. No sirens. No footfalls on the cobblesNot even gulls. Just a high tide, one block away and six stories below, lapping at the base of the citywalls.