It is a peculiar quirk of the human condition that tragedy and comedymake such natural bedfellows.Occasionally, in moments ofgreat despairour misery can tip into absurdity, and all of a sudden we're laughingSure, sometimes a tragedy is just a tragedy. But it's often possible, andstrangely comforting, to laugh about it later. If you come from lrishstock, you likely have a vivid sense of what I'm talking about. TheIrish cannot claim a monopoly on the comedy ofsuffering, but to revelin loss and heartbreak and deprivation and squalor, to season it with adash ofimpish self-awareness and maybe even a pinch ofhyperbole andmake a meal ofit afeast ofit is its own proud and distinctly lrishsubgenre. Few books push this principle to such gorgeous extremes asFrank McCourt's Angela' Ashes.
I first read the book in the fall of 1996, about a month after it wasfirst published..
I had just started my sophomore year at Columbia University, anda friend of mine was doing an internship at Scribner, McCourt's pub.lisher.It was probably on account of my name, which does not leavemuch to the imagination when it comes to my cultural origins, that shegave me a copy, saying that she thought it might appeal to me. It did.By then, the book was already a phenomenon, a memoir about a rotten childhood in a foreign land by a first-time author who wassixty-six years old. It sold millions of copies in hardcover and turnedMcCourt into a minor celebrity, inaugurating a pleasant final chapter ofhis life, in which he would live in greater comfort than he'd ever knownand publish subsequent books and become the sort offgure who giveshope to other people who think they might have a great book insidethem but worry they could be seventy before they get around to writing it. As McCourt told a group ofhigh school students on Long Islandin 1997,“I learned the significance ofmy own insignificant life.McCourt was born in Brooklyn in 1930 to along-suffering mother(the Angela of the title) and an alcoholic father, Malachy. When Frankwas four, the family returned to their native Ireland, settling in theslums of Limerick in the hopes of making a better life. Instead, thingsgot worse in a hurry: the family was beset by destitution, illness, thedeath of three of McCourt's younger siblings; his father could rarelyhold a job and when he did, he drank his wages; Angela was reducedto begging.
Yet somehow, Frank McCourt survived this childhood and eventually wrote a book about it. A book that, as it turned out, was uproar-iously funny, He might have described it as an “epic of woe,’’ but forall the gloom, this is not a gloomy book.Instead, in his retelling, thewhole parade of depredations, from doing battle with feas to thebody horror of conjunctivitis to boiling a pig's head for Christmasdinner because that is all the family can afford, becomes the stuff ofriotous laughter. McCourt makes it look easy, but this is a high-wireact: a millimeter too far in one direction and you keel over into poverty porn, a milllimeter too far in the other and you're airbrushingthe truth.It helps a great deal that McCourt elects to write in thevoice ofa child. It took him decades to find that yoice. Ile had firstattempted writing about his childhood as a young man, after finallleaving Limerick at nineteen and moving back to New York. But ihadn't quite worked.It was only in his sixties, after he retired fronhis job as a beloved teacher in New York City Public Schools, thatMcCourt was able to summon the voice of his own childhood, morethan half a century earlier and an ocean away. To a child, everythingseems a little absurd: the folly of adult pride, the unpredictability ofdrink, the slogans of lrish Republicanism, the suddenness of infantdeath, the confusing dictates of Catholicism, the pomposity of priestsand teachers, the mysteries of sex.