There were only two kinds of people in our town.
“The stupid and the stuck,” my father had affec-
tionately classified our neighbors. “The ones who
are bound to stay or too dumb to go. Everyone else
finds a way out.” There was no question which
one he was, but I’d never had the courage to ask
why. My father was a writer, and we lived in Gat-
lin, South Carolina, because the Wates always had,
since my great-great-great-great-granddad, Ellis
Wate, fought and died on the other side of the
Santee River during the Civil War.
Only folks down here didn’t call it the Civil
War. Everyone under the age of sixty called it
the War Between the States, while everyone over
sixty called it the War of Northern Aggression, as
if somehow the North had baited the South into
war over a bad bale of cotton. Everyone, that is,
except my family. We called it the Civil War.
Just another reason I couldn’t wait to get out
of here.
Gatlin wasn’t like the small towns you saw
in the movies, unless it was a movie from about
fifty years ago. We were too far from Charleston
to have a Starbucks or a McDonald’s. All we had
was a Dar-ee Keen, since the Gentrys were too
cheap to buy all new letters when they bought
the Dairy King. The library still had a card cata-
log, the high school still had chalkboards, and
our community pool was Lake Moultrie, warm
brown water and all. You could see a movie at
the Cineplex about the same time it came out on
DVD, but you had to hitch a ride over to Sum-
merville, by the community college. The shops
were on Main, the good houses were on River,
and everyone else lived south of Route 9, where
the pavement disintegrated into chunky concrete
stubble—terrible for walking, but perfect for
throwing at angry possums, the meanest animals
alive. You never saw that in the movies.
Gatlin wasn’t a complicated place; Gatlin was
Gatlin. The neighbors kept watch from their
porches in the unbearable heat, sweltering in
plain sight. But there was no point. Nothing ever
changed. Tomorrow would be the first day of
school, my sophomore year at Stonewall Jackson
High, and I already knew everything that was go-
ing to happen—where I would sit, who I would
talk to, the jokes, the girls, who would park
where.
There were no surprises in Gatlin County. We
were pretty much the epicenter of the middle of
nowhere.
At least, that’s what I thought, when I closed
my battered copy of Slaughterhouse-Five,
clicked off my iPod, and turned out the light on
the last night of summer.
Turns out, I couldn’t have been more wrong.
There was a curse.
There was a girl.
And in the end, there was a grave.
I never even saw it coming.