PART I
“THE SPARK”
I clasp the flask between my hands even though the warmth from the tea has long since
leached into the frozen air. My muscles are clenched tight against the cold. If a pack of wild
dogs were to appear at this moment, the odds of scaling a tree before they attacked are not in
my favor. I should get up, move around, and work the stiffness from my limbs. But instead I
sit, as motionless as the rock beneath me, while the dawn begins to lighten the woods. I can't
fight the sun. I can only watch helplessly as it drags me into a day that I've been dreading for
months.
By noon they will all be at my new house in the Victor's Village. The reporters, the
camera crews, even Effie Trinket, my old escort, will have made their way to District 12 from
the Capitol. I wonder if Effie will still be wearing that silly pink wig, or if she'll be sporting
some other unnatural color especially for the Victory Tour. There will be others waiting, too.
A staff to cater to my every need on the long train trip. A prep team to beautify me for public
appearances. My stylist and friend, Cinna, who designed the gorgeous outfits that first made
the audience take notice of me in the Hunger Games.
If it were up to me, I would try to forget the Hunger Games entirely. Never speak of them.
Pretend they were nothing but a bad dream. But the Victory Tour makes that impossible.
Strategically placed almost midway between the annual Games, it is the Capitol's way of
keeping the horror fresh and immediate. Not only are we in the districts forced to remember
the iron grip of the Capitol's power each year, we are forced to celebrate it. And this year, I
am one of the stars of the show. I will have to travel from district to district, to stand before
the cheering crowds who secretly loathe me, to look down into the faces of the families
whose children I have killed...
The sun persists in rising, so I make myself stand. All my joints complain and my left leg
has been asleep for so long that it takes several minutes of pacing to bring the feeling back
into it. I've been in the woods three hours, but as I've made no real attempt at hunting, I have
nothing to show for it. It doesn't matter for my mother and little sister, Prim, anymore. They
can afford to buy butcher meat in town, although none of us likes it any better than fresh
game. But my best friend, Gale Hawthorne, and his family will be depending on today's haul
and I can't let them down. I start the hour-and-a-half trek it will take to cover our snare line.
Back when we were in school, we had time in the afternoons to check the line and hunt and
gather and still get back to trade in town. But now that Gale has gone to work in the coal
mines — and I have nothing to do all day—I've taken over the job.
By this time Gale will have clocked in at the mines, taken the stomach-churning elevator
ride into the depths of the earth, and be pounding away at a coal seam. I know what it's like
down there. Every year in school, as part of our training, my class had to tour the mines.
When I was little, it was just unpleasant. The claustrophobic tunnels, foul air, suffocating
darkness on all sides. But after my father and several other miners were killed in an
explosion, I could barely force myself onto the elevator. The annual trip became an enormous source of anxiety. Twice I made myself so sick in anticipation of it that my mother kept me
home because she thought I had contracted the flu.
I think of Gale, who is only really alive in the woods, with its fresh air and sunlight and
clean, flowing water. I don't know how he stands it. Well ... yes, I do. He stands it because it's
the way to feed his mother and two younger brothers and sister. And here I am with buckets
of money, far more than enough to feed both our families now, and he won't take a single
coin. It's even hard for him to let me bring in meat, although he'd surely have kept my mother
and Prim supplied if I'd been killed in the Games. I tell him he's doing me a favor, that it
drives me nuts to sit around all day. Even so, I never drop off the game while he's at home.
Which is easy since he works twelve hours a day.
The only time I really get to see Gale now is on Sundays, when we meet up in the woods
to hunt together. It's still the best day of the week, but it's not like it used to be before, when
we could tell each other anything. The Games have spoiled even that. I keep hoping that as
time passes we'll regain the ease between us, but part of me knows it's futile. There's no going
back.
I get a good haul from the traps — eight rabbits, two squirrels, and a beaver that swam
into a wire contraption Gale designed himself. He's something of a whiz with snares, rigging
them to bent saplings so they pull the kill out of the reach of predators, balancing logs on
delicate stick triggers, weaving inescapable baskets to capture fish. As I go along, carefully
resetting each snare, I know I can never quite replicate his eye for balance, his instinct for
where the prey will cross the path. It's more than experience. It's a natural gift. Like the way I
can shoot at an animal in almost complete darkness and still take it down with one arrow.
By the time I make it back to the fence that surrounds District 12, the sun is well up. As
always, I listen a moment, but there's no telltale hum of electrical current running through the
chain link. There hardly ever is, even though the thing is supposed to be charged full-time. I
wriggle through the opening at the bottom of the fence and come up in the Meadow, just a
stone's throw from my home. My old home. We still get to keep it since officially it's the
designated dwelling of my mother and sister. If I should drop dead right now, they would
have to return to it. But at present, they're both happily installed in the new house in the
Victor's Village, and I'm the only one who uses the squat little place where I was raised. To
me, it's my real home.
I go there now to switch my clothes. Exchange my father's old leather jacket for a fine
wool coat that always seems too tight in the shoulders. Leave my soft, worn hunting boots for
a pair of expensive machine-made shoes that my mother thinks are more appropriate for
someone of my status. I've already stowed my bow and arrows in a hollow log in the woods.
Although time is ticking away, I allow myself a few minutes to sit in the kitchen. It has an
abandoned quality with no fire on the hearth, no cloth on the table. I mourn my old life here.
We barely scraped by, but I knew where I fit in, I knew what my place was in the tightly
interwoven fabric that was our life. I wish I could go back to it because, in retrospect, it
seems so secure compared with now, when I am so rich and so famous and so hated by the
authorities in the Capitol.
A wailing at the back door demands my attention. I open it to find Buttercup, Prim's
scruffy old tomcat. He dislikes the new house almost as much as I do and always leaves it
when my sister's at school. We've never been particularly fond of each other, but now we
have this new bond. I let him in, feed him a chunk of beaver fat, and even rub him between
the ears for a bit. “You're hideous, you know that, right?” I ask him. Buttercup nudges my
hand for more petting, but we have to go. “Come on, you.” I scoop him up with one hand, 