PROLOGUE:SMOKE AND DIAMONDS
THE FORMIDABLE GLASS-AND-STEEL STRUCTURE ROSE FROMits position on Front Street like a glittering needle threading the sky,There were fifty-seven foors to the MetropoleManhattan's most expensive new downtown condominiumtower, The topmost floor, the fifty-seventh, contained thcmost luxurious apartment of all: the Metropole penthouse, amasterpiece of sleck black and-white design. Too new to havcgathered dust yet, its bare marble floors reflected back thestars visible through the enormous foor-to-ceiling windows.The window glass was peffecdy translucent, providing such acomplete illusion that there was nothing between the viewerand the vicw that it had been known to induce verugo even inthose unafraid of heights.
Far below ran the silver ribbon of the Fast River, brace.leted by shining bridges, flccked by boats as small as flyspecks.splitting the shining banks of light that were Manhattan andBrooklyn on either side, On a clear night the ilhuminated Statucof Liberty was just visible to the south_ but there was fogtonight, and Liberty Island was hidden bchind a white bankof mist.
However spectacular the view, the man standing in front ofthe window didn't look particularly impressed by it. There wasa frown on his narrow, ascetie face as he turned away from theglass and strode across the floor, the heels of his boots echoing against the marble, “Aren't you ready ye?" he demandedraking a hand through his saltwhite hair."We've been hercncarly an hour,"
The boy kneeling on the floor looked up at him, nervousand petulant. 'It's the marble. lt's more solid than l thought.Ie's making it hard to draw the pentagram.""
“So skip the pentagram,"" Up close it was easier to see thatdespite his white hair, the man wasn't old, His hard face wassevere but unlined, his cyes clear and steady.The boy swallowed hard and the membranous black wingsprotruding from his narrow shoulder blades he had cut slitsin the back of his denim jacket to accommodate them) flappednervously,""The pentagram is a necessary part of any demon.raising ritual, You know that, sir, Without it..."
'We're not protected, I know that, young Elias. But gct onwith it, l've known warlocks who could raise a demon, chathim up, and dispatch him back to hell in the time ir's takenyou to draw half a five-pointed star."
The boy said nothing, only attacked the marble again, thistime with renewed urgency, Sweat dripped from his foreheadand he pushed his hair back with a hand whose fingers wereconnected with delicate weblike membranes. "Done," he said atlast, sitting back on his heels with a gasp. "It's done.”
“Good,"" The man sounded pleased."Let's get started.""“My money
'I told you, You'll get your money afer l talk to Agramon,not before’”
Elias got to his feet and shrugged his jacket off. Despite thcholes he'd cut in it, it still compressed his wings uncomfortably, frced, they stretched and expanded themselves, wafting