“You've got to be kidding me," the bouncer said, folding hisarms across his massive chest. He stared down at the boy in thered zip-up jacket and shook his shaved head.“you can't bringthat thing in here.’
The fifty or so teenagers in line outside the PandemoniumClub leaned forward to eavesdrop. It was a long wait to get intothe all-ages club, especially on a Sunday, and not much gener.ally happened in line. The bouncers were fierce and wouldcome down instantly on anyone who looked like they weregoing to start trouble. Fifteen-year-old Clary Fray, standing inline with her best friend, Simon, leaned forward along witheveryone else, hoping for some excitement.“Aw, come on." The kid hoisted the thing up over his head. It looked like a wooden beam, pointed at one end. “It's part of mycostume.”
The bouncer raised an eyebrow.“Which is what?”The boy grinned. He was normal-enough-looking, Clarythought, for Pandemonium. He had electric blue dyed hair thatstuck up around his head like the tentacles of a startled octopus.but no elaborate facial tattoos or big metal bars through his earsor lips. “T'm a vampire hunter." He pushed down on the woodenthing. It bent as easily as a blade of grass bending sideways.“It'sfake. Foam rubber. See?’
The boy's wide eyes were way too bright a green, Clarynoticed: the color of antifreeze, spring grass. Colored contactlenses, probably. The bouncer shrugged, abruptly bored
“'Whatever. Go on in.”The boy slid past him, quick as an eel. Claryliked the lilt to hisshoulders, thewayhe tossed his hair as hewent. 'There was a wordfor him that her mother would haveused insouciant.“You thought he was cute," said Simon, soundingresigned“Didn't you?”
Clary dug her elbow into his ribs, but didn't answer.
Inside, the club was full ofdry-ice smoke.Colored lights playedover the dance floor, turning it into a multicolored fairyland ofblues and acid greens, hot pinks and golds.
The boy in the red jacket stroked thelong razor-sharp bladein his hands, an idle smile playing over his lips. It had been soeasy-a little bit of a glamour on the blade, to make it lookharmless. Another glamour on his eyes, and the moment thebouncer had looked straight at him, he was in. Of course, hecould probably have gotten by without all that trouble, but it