The Shores of the Cosmic Ocean — 5 


The surface of the Earth is the shore of the cosmic ocean. 

From it we have learned most of what we know. Recently, we 
have waded a little out to sea, enough to dampen our toes or, at 
most, wet our ankles. The water seems inviting. The ocean calls. 

Some part of our being knows this is from where we came. We 
long to return. These aspirations are not, I think, irreverent, 
although they may trouble whatever gods may be. 

The dimensions of the Cosmos are so large that using familiar 
units of distance, such as meters or miles, chosen for their utility 
on Earth, would make little sense. Instead, we measure distance 
with the speed of light. In one second a beam of light travels Exploding radio galaxy with symmetrical 
186,000 miles, nearly 300,000 kilometers or seven times around jets. Painting by Adolf Schaller. 
the Earth. In eight minutes it will travel from the Sun to the 
Earth. We can say the Sun is eight light-minutes away. In a year, 
it crosses nearly ten trillion kilometers, about six trillion miles, of 
intervening space. That unit of length, the distance light goes in a 
year, is called a light-year. It measures not time but distances— 
enormous distances. 

The Earth is a place. It is by no means the only place. It is not 
even a typical place. No planet or star or galaxy can be typical, 
because the Cosmos is mostly empty. The only typical place is 
within the vast, cold, universal vacuum, the everlasting night of 
intergalactic space, a place so strange and desolate that, by com¬ 
parison, planets and stars and galaxies seem achingly rare and 
lovely. If we were randomly inserted into the Cosmos, the 
chance that we would find ourselves on or near a planet would 
be less than one in a billion trillion trillion* (10 33 , a one followed 
by 33 zeroes). In everyday life such odds are called compelling. 

Worlds are precious. 

From an intergalactic vantage point we would see, strewn like 
sea froth on the waves of space, innumerable faint, wispy tendrils 
of light. These are the galaxies. Some are solitary wanderers; 
most inhabit communal clusters, huddling together, drifting end¬ 
lessly in the great cosmic dark. Before us is the Cosmos on the 
grandest scale we know. We are in the realm of the nebulae, 
eight billion light-years from Earth, halfway to the edge of the 
known universe. 

A galaxy is composed of gas and dust and stars—billions upon 
billions of stars. Every star may be a sun to someone. Within a 
galaxy are stars and worlds and, it may be, a proliferation of 
living things and intelligent beings and spacefaring civilizations. 

But from afar, a galaxy reminds me more of a collection of lovely 
found objects—seashells, perhaps, or corals, the productions of 
Nature laboring for aeons in the cosmic ocean. 

There are some hundred billion (10 11 ) galaxies, each with, on 



* We use the American scientific convention for large numbers: one 
billion = 1,000,000,000 = 10 9 ; one trillion = 1,000,000,000,000 = 
10 12 , etc. The exponent counts the number of zeroes after the one. 





6 — Cosmos 



The large-scale texture of the Cosmos: a small sampling from a map of the million brightest galaxies, all within a 
billion light-years distance from the Earth. Each little square is a galaxy containing billions of stars. The map is based 
on a telescopic survey, taking twelve years to complete, by Donald Shane and Carl Wirtanen at the University of 
California’s Lick Observatory. Courtesy Stewart Brand. 



The Shores of the Cosmic Ocean — 7 


the average, a hundred billion stars. In all the galaxies, there are 
perhaps as many planets as stars, 10 11 * 10 11 = 10 22 , ten billion 
trillion. In the face of such overpowering numbers, what is the 
likelihood that only one ordinary star, the Sun, is accompanied 
by an inhabited planet? Why should we, tucked away in some 
forgotten corner of the Cosmos, be so fortunate? To me, it seems 
far more likely that the universe is brimming over with life. But 
we humans do not yet know. We are just beginning our explora- 
tions. From eight billion light-years away we are hard pressed to 
find even the cluster in which our Milky Way Galaxy is embed¬ 
ded, much less the Sun or the Earth. The only planet we are sure 
is inhabited is a tiny speck of rock and metal, shining feebly by 
reflected sunlight, and at this distance utterly lost. 

But presently our journey takes us to what astronomers on 
Earth like to call the Local Group of galaxies. Several million 


A barred spiral galaxy, so-called from the 
bar of stars and dust which transects the 
core. Painting by Jon Lomberg. 


A typical spiral galaxy. Painting by Jon 
Lomberg. 
