1 


WHAT THE? 


What about a teakettle? What if the spout opened and closed when the steam came out, so 
it would become a mouth, and it could whistle pretty melodies, or do Shakespeare, or just 
crack up with me? I could invent a teakettle that reads in Dad's voice, so I could fall asleep, 
or maybe a set of kettles that sings the chorus of 'Yellow Submarine', which is a song by 
the Beatles, who I love, because entomology is one of my raisons d'etre, which is a French 
expression that I know. Another good thing is that I could train my anus to talk when I 
farted. If I wanted to be extremely hilarious. I'd train it to say, 'Wasn't me!' every time I 
made an incredibly bad fart. And if I ever made an incredibly bad fart in the Hall of Mir- 
rors, which is in Versailles, which is outside of Paris, which is in France, obviously, my 
anus would say, 'Ce n'etais pas moi!' 

What about little microphones? What if everyone swallowed them, and they played the 
sounds of our hearts through little speakers, which could be in the pouches of our over- 
alls? When you skateboarded down the street at night you could hear everyone's heart- 
beat, and they could hear yours, sort of like sonar. One weird thing is, I wonder if every- 
one's hearts would start to beat at the same time, like how women who live together have 
their menstrual periods at the same time, which I know about, but don't really want to 
know about. That would be so weird, except that the place in the hospital where babies are 
born would sound like a crystal chandelier in a houseboat, because the babies wouldn't 
have had time to match up their heartbeats yet. And at the finish line at the end of the 
New York City Marathon it would sound like war. 

And also, there are so many times when you need to make a quick escape, but humans 
don't have their own wings, or not yet, anyway, so what about a birdseed shirt ? 

Anyway. 

My first jujitsu class was three and a half months ago. Self-defense was something that I 
was extremely curious about, for obvious reasons, and Mom thought it would be good for 
me to have a physical activity besides tambourining, so my first jujitsu class was three and 
a half months ago. There were fourteen kids in the class, and we all had on neat white 
robes. We practiced bowing, and then we were all sitting down Native American style, 
and then Sensei Mark asked me to go over to him. 'Kick my privates,' he told me. That 
made me feel self-conscious. ' Excusez-moi ?' I told him. He spread his legs and told me, 'I 
want you to kick my privates as hard as you can.' He put his hands at his sides, and took a 
breath in, and closed his eyes, and that's how I knew that actually he meant business. 

'Jose,' I told him, and inside I was thinking. What the? 

He told me, 'Go on, guy. Destroy my privates.' 

'Destroy your privates?' With his eyes still closed he cracked up a lot and said, 'You could- 
n't destroy my privates if you tried. That's what's going on here. This is a demonstration of 
the well-trained body's ability to absorb a direct blow. Now destroy my privates.' I told 
him, 'I'm a pacifist,' and since most people my age don't know what that means, I turned 
around and told the others, 'I don't think it's right to destroy people's privates. Ever.' Sen- 
sei Mark said, 'Can I ask you something?' I turned back around and told him, 'Can I ask 


2 



you something?' is asking me something.' He said, 'Do you have dreams of becoming a ju- 
jitsu master?' 

'No,' I told him, even though I don't have dreams of running the family jewelry business 
anymore. He said, 'Do you want to know how a jujitsu student becomes a jujitsu master?' 

'I want to know everything,' I told him, but that isn't true anymore either. He told me, 'A 
jujitsu student becomes a jujitsu master by destroying his master's privates.' I told him, 
'That's fascinating.' My last jujitsu class was three and a half months ago. 

I desperately wish I had my tambourine with me now, because even after everything I'm 
still wearing heavy boots, and sometimes it helps to play a good beat. My most impressive 
song that I can play on my tambourine is 'The Flight of the Bumblebee', by Nicolai Rim- 
sky-Korsakov, which is also the ring tone I downloaded for the cell phone I got after Dad 
died. It's pretty amazing that I can play 'The Flight of the Bumblebee', because you have to 
hit incredibly fast in parts, and that's extremely hard for me, because I don't really have 
wrists yet. Ron offered to buy me a five-piece drum set. Money can't buy me love, obvi- 
ously, but I asked if it would have Zildjian cymbals. He said, 'Whatever you want,' and 
then he took my yo-yo off my desk and started to walk the dog with it. I know he just 
wanted to be friendly, but it made me incredibly angry. 'Yo-yo moi!' I told him, grabbing it 
back. What I really wanted to tell him was 'You're not my dad, and you never will be.' 

Isn't it so weird how the number of dead people is increasing even though the earth stays 
the same size, so that one day there isn't going to be room to bury anyone anymore? For 
my ninth birthday last year. Grandma gave me a subscription to National Geographic, 
which she calls 'the National Geographic ' . She also gave me a white blazer, because I only 
wear white clothes, and it's too big to wear so it will last me a long time. She also gave me 
Grandpa's camera, which I loved for two reasons. I asked why he didn't take it with him 
when he left her. She said, 'Maybe he wanted you to have it.' I said, 'But I was negative- 
thirty years old.' She said, 'Still.' Anyway, the fascinating thing was that I read in National 
Geographic that there are more people alive now than have died in all of human history. In 
other words, if everyone wanted to play Hamlet at once, they couldn't, because there aren't 
enough skulls! 

So what about skyscrapers for dead people that were built down? They could be under- 
neath the skyscrapers for living people that are built up. You could bury people one hun- 
dred floors down, and a whole dead world could be underneath the living one. Sometimes 
I think it would be weird if there were a skyscraper that moved up and down while its 
elevator stayed in place. So if you wanted to go to the ninety-fifth floor, you'd just press 
the 95 button and the ninety-fifth floor would come to you. Also, that could be extremely 
useful, because if you're on the ninety-fifth floor, and a plane hits below you, the building 
could take you to the ground, and everyone could be safe, even if you left your birdseed 
shirt at home that day. 

I've only been in a limousine twice ever. The first time was terrible, even though the lim- 
ousine was wonderful. I'm not allowed to watch TV at home, and I'm not allowed to 
watch TV in limousines either, but it was still neat that there was a TV there. I asked if we 
could go by school, so Toothpaste and The Minch could see me in a limousine. Mom said 
that school wasn't on the way, and we couldn't be late to the cemetery. 'Why not?' I asked. 
