part one
BOY LOSES GIRL
NICK DUNNE
THE DAY OF
When I think of my wife, I always think of her head. The shape of it,
to begin with. The very rst time I saw her, it was the back of the
head I saw, and there was something lovely about it, the angles of
it. Like a shiny, hard corn kernel or a riverbed fossil. She had what
the Victorians would call a nely shaped head. You could imagine
the skull quite easily.
I’d know her head anywhere.
And what’s inside it. I think of that too: her mind. Her brain, all
those coils, and her thoughts shuttling through those coils like fast,
frantic centipedes. Like a child, I picture opening her skull,
unspooling her brain and sifting through it, trying to catch and pin
down her thoughts. What are you thinking, Amy? The question I’ve
asked most often during our marriage, if not out loud, if not to the
person who could answer. I suppose these questions stormcloud
over every marriage: What are you thinking? How are you feeling?
Who are you? What have we done to each other? What will we do?
My eyes ipped open at exactly six A.M. This was no avian
uttering of the lashes, no gentle blink toward consciousness. The
awakening was mechanical. A spooky ventriloquist-dummy click of
the lids: The world is black and then, showtime! 6-0-0 the clock said
—in my face, rst thing I saw. 6-0-0. It felt dierent. I rarely woke
at such a rounded time. I was a man of jagged risings: 8:43, 11:51,
9:26. My life was alarmless.
At that exact moment, 6-0-0, the sun climbed over the skyline of
oaks, revealing its full summer angry-god self. Its reection ared
across the river toward our house, a long, blaring nger aimed at
me through our frail bedroom curtains. Accusing: You have been
seen. You will be seen.
I wallowed in bed, which was our New York bed in our new
house, which we still called the new house, even though we’d been
back here for two years. It’s a rented house right along the
Mississippi River, a house that screams Suburban Nouveau Riche,
the kind of place I aspired to as a kid from my split-level, shagcarpet side of town. The kind of house that is immediately familiar:
a generically grand, unchallenging, new, new, new house that my
wife would—and did—detest.
“Should I remove my soul before I come inside?” Her rst line
upon arrival. It had been a compromise: Amy demanded we rent,
not buy, in my little Missouri hometown, in her rm hope that we
wouldn’t be stuck here long. But the only houses for rent were
clustered in this failed development: a miniature ghost town of
bank-owned, recession-busted, price-reduced mansions, a
neighborhood that closed before it ever opened. It was a
compromise, but Amy didn’t see it that way, not in the least. To
Amy, it was a punishing whim on my part, a nasty, selsh twist of
the knife. I would drag her, caveman-style, to a town she had
aggressively avoided, and make her live in the kind of house she
used to mock. I suppose it’s not a compromise if only one of you
considers it such, but that was what our compromises tended to look
like. One of us was always angry. Amy, usually.