CHAPTER I
SCARLETT O’HARA was not beautiful, but men seldom realized it when caught by her charm as the Tarleton
twins were. In her face were too sharply blended the delicate features of her mother, a Coast aristocrat of French
descent, and the heavy ones of her florid Irish father. But it was an arresting face, pointed of chin, square of jaw. Her
eyes were pale green without a touch of hazel, starred with bristly black lashes and slightly tilted at the ends. Above
them, her thick black brows slanted upward, cutting a startling oblique line in her magnolia-white skin—that skin so
prized by Southern women and so carefully guarded with bonnets, veils and mittens against hot Georgia suns.
Seated with Stuart and Brent Tarleton in the cool shade of the porch of Tara, her father’s plantation, that bright
April afternoon of 1861, she made a pretty picture. Her new green flowered-muslin dress spread its twelve yards of
billowing material over her hoops and exactly matched the flat-heeled green morocco slippers her father had recently
brought her from Atlanta. The dress set off to perfection the seventeen-inch waist, the smallest in three counties, and
the tightly fitting basque showed breasts well matured for her sixteen years. But for all the modesty of her spreading
skirts, the demureness of hair netted smoothly into a chignon and the quietness of small white hands folded in her lap,
her true self was poorly concealed. The green eyes in the carefully sweet face were turbulent, willful, lusty with life,
distinctly at variance with her decorous demeanor. Her manners had been imposed upon her by her mother’s gentle
admonitions and the sterner discipline of her mammy; her eyes were her own.
On either side of her, the twins lounged easily in their chairs, squinting at the sunlight through tall mint-garnished
glasses as they laughed and talked, their long legs, booted to the knee and thick with saddle muscles, crossed
negligently. Nineteen years old, six feet two inches tall, long of bone and hard of muscle, with sunburned faces and
deep auburn hair, their eyes merry and arrogant, their bodies clothed in identical blue coats and mustard-colored
breeches, they were as much alike as two bolls of cotton.
Outside, the late afternoon sun slanted down in the yard, throwing into gleaming brightness the dogwood trees that
were solid masses of white blossoms against the background of new green. The twins’ horses were hitched in the
driveway, big animals, red as their masters’ hair; and around the horses’ legs quarreled the pack of lean, nervous
possum hounds that accompanied Stuart and Brent wherever they went. A little aloof, as became an aristocrat, lay a
black-spotted carriage dog, muzzle on paws, patiently waiting for the boys to go home to supper.
Between the hounds and the horses and the twins there was a kinship deeper than that of their constant
companionship. They were all healthy, thoughtless young animals, sleek, graceful, high-spirited, the boys as
mettlesome as the horses they rode, mettlesome and dangerous but, withal, sweet-tempered to those who knew how to
handle them.
Although born to the ease of plantation life, waited on hand and foot since infancy, the faces of the three on the
porch were neither slack nor soft. They had the vigor and alertness of country people who have spent all their lives in
the open and troubled their heads very little with dull things in books. Life in the north Georgia county of Clayton was
still new and, according to the standards of Augusta, Savannah and Charleston, a little crude. The more sedate and
older sections of the South looked down their noses at the up-country Georgians, but here in north Georgia, a lack of
the niceties of classical education carried no shame, provided a man was smart in the things that mattered. And raising
good cotton, riding well, shooting straight, dancing lightly, squiring the ladies with elegance and carrying one’s liquor
like a gentleman were the things that mattered.
In these accomplishments the twins excelled, and they were equally outstanding in their notorious inability to
learn anything contained between the covers of books. Their family had more money, more horses, more slaves than
any one else in the County, but the boys had less grammar than most of their poor Cracker neighbors.
It was for this precise reason that Stuart and Brent were idling on the porch of Tara this April afternoon. They had
just been expelled from the University of Georgia, the fourth university that had thrown them out in two years; and
their older brothers, Tom and Boyd, had come home with them, because they refused to remain at an institution where
the twins were not welcome. Stuart and Brent considered their latest expulsion a fine joke, and Scarlett, who had not
