INTRODUCTION
The balcony door stood open, and the curtain stirred in the wind, filling out, rising reluctantly, and
shrinking like a dipped sail. A crumpled towel left by someone on the radio made a white blur in
the dusk. It looked like a white rabbit who had laid down its long ears preparing to jump.
I remembered that bright September morning in Sochi two years ago, the small house in
Orekhovaya Street, the ripe, orange persimmons in the sunlit garden, the pleasant
whitewashed room, and the dear face on the piled-up pillows.
The white rabbit nestled happily in the folds of the blanket as Nikolai's nervous fingers
caressed its long, silky ears. Nikolai was laughing softly, and his gleaming teeth were as
white as sugar. On the bedside table lay several big red apples, and their lovely smell
filled the whole house. The white rabbit, comically twitching its soft ears, licked the gentle
human hand with its small pink tongue.
I wanted to shut my eyes tight and see that hot September morning again, and the house filled
with sunlight and apple fragrance. My thoughts refused to take a melancholy course, and my mind
was still unable to grasp what had happened and tell itself that this was the irrevocable. . . .
But reality asserted itself, and my eyes saw with ruthless clarity t he face that had forever grown
still. The last struggle for survival had sapped all his life juices, and dried him as a leaf is dried in a
hot wind. It only spared his tall, handsome forehead, and his soft dark chestnut hair. This clear,
dome-like brow rose above a small, wizened face. And one fancied that his creative imagination,
infused with revolutionary ardour and an irrepressible interest in and love of life, was still working
busily. . . . I placed my hand on his forehead. It was still warm and even moist, as though Nikolai
was simply resting after his exciting exertion. The Order of Lenin twinkled uncannily on his sunken chest as if life were stirring in it, and one would see it rise in a soft sigh.
For three days, from morning till night, an endless stream of people of all ages filed past
the bier which was literally submerged in flowers and wreaths.
Nikolai Ostrovsky continues to live not only in his books: he himself is a heroic image,
and one of the strongest and most striking personalities of his epoch.
Fate treated him cruelly, depriving him of the power of sight and the use of his legs and arms. But
he overpowered his physical infirmities, his incurable disease, weakness, grief and torpor, and
victoriously asserted life, creative endeavour, and struggle. As an ardent singer of the Bolshevik
youth, he sang his militant, joyous song of struggle and victory of socialism, and his voice, ringing
with a beautiful, lyrical strength, resounded throughout the Soviet land and the whole world.
Away with melancholy recollections! Let us part with them, for death is the tax we must pay for the
frailty of our physical being, and let us turn to the inexhaustible, powerful fount of life. . . .
I went to see him on a cold, windy day in 1932, a typical day for early Moscow spring. He
lived in Mertvy Pereulok (since renamed Nikolai Ostrovsky Pereulok— Ed.).
The large flat was packed with tenants. It was noisy and crowded. People jostled you in
the corridor, babies were howling, and someone was typing inexpertly in a far room,
pecking at the keys with a woodpecker's persistence.
What a setup for a writer! Imagine working in that din! I knocked, and opened the door
into Nikolai Ostrovsky's room.
A man, muffled up to his chin in blankets and shawls, was lying on the bed. The pillows
were piled high, and I saw a mop of dark chestnut hair, a large, prominent forehead, and
a thin, wan face that did not have a drop of colour in it.
The thin eyelids trembled slightly. The thick eyelashes cast bluish shadows on the hollow
cheeks. Hands of a waxen transparency lay on top of the blankets.
I knew that Nikolai Ostrovsky was an invalid, but still I did not picture him quite like this.
He looked so terribly weak and helpless that I decided not to bother him and come back
another time.
Just then a slight old lady walked briskly into the room. She had lively dark brown eyes,
and her face was wreathed in smiles.
"Mother, who's there?" Nikolai suddenly asked in a voice that was somewhat hollow, but
very young and not weak at all.
His mother told him my name.
"Oh! How nice," he said. "Come nearer, come here."
A beautiful white-toothed smile lighted up his face. Its every line seemed to glow with
youthful eagerness and the joy of living. At first I fancied that his big, brown eyes also
sparkled with animation. But in the next moment I realised that th e sparkle came from the
deep and rich colouring of the irises. Still, during our conversation I kept forgetting that he
was blind, for there was so much concentration, attention and joviality in his radiant face.
We were talking about the first part of his novel How the Steel Was Tempered which had
just been signed for publication in the magazine Molodaya Gvardia where I worked as
editor at the time. Nikolai was curious to hear how his characters had impressed us.
"Pavel, I think, is not a bad kid at all," he said with sly humour, and flashed me a smile. "I'm not