I:THE SIXPENNY BOOK
I am sitting in the kitchen sink. That is, my feet are in it; the rest of me is on the draining-board, which I have
padded with our dog's blanket and the tea-cozy. I can't say that I am really comfortable, and there is a depressing
smellof carbolic soap, but this is the only part ofthe kitchen where there is any daylight left. And I have found
that sitting in a place where you have never sat before can be inspiring--I wrote my very best poemwhile sitting
on the hen-house. Though even that isn't a very good poem. I have decided my poetry is so bad that I mustn't
write any more of it.
Drips fromthe roof are plopping into the water-butt by the back door.The viewthrough the windows above the
sinkis excessively dreary. Beyond the dankgarden in the courtyard are the ruined walls on the edge of the moat.
Beyond the moat,the boggy ploughed fields stretch to the leaden sky.I tell myself that all the rain we have had
lately is good for nature, and that at any moment spring willsurge on us. Itry to see leaves on the trees and the
courtyard filled with sunlight. Unfortunately, the more my mind's eye sees green and gold, the more drained of
allcolor does the twilight seem.
It is comforting to lookaway from the windows and towards the kitchen fire, near which my sister Rose is
ironing, though she obviously can't see properly, and it willbe a pity if she scorches her only nightgown. (I have
two, but one is minus its behind.) Rose looks particularly fetching by firelight becauseshe is a pinkish person;
herskin has a pinkglow and her hair is pinkish gold, very light and feathery. Although I am rather used to her I
know she is a beauty. She is nearly twenty-one and very bitter with life.I amseventeen,look younger, feelolder.
I am no beauty but have a nea tish face.
I have just remarked to Rose that our situation is really rather romantic--two girls in this strange and lonely
house. She replied that shesawnothing romantic about being shut up in a crumbling ruin surrounded by a sea of
mud. I must admit that our home is an unreasonable place to live in. Yet I love it. The house itself was built in
the time of Charles II, but it was grafted on to a fourteenth-century castle that had been damaged by Cromwell.
The whole of our east wall was part of the castle; there are two round towers in it. The gatehouse is intact and a
stretch ofthe old walls at their fullheight joins it to the house. And Belmotte Tower, allthat remains of an even
older castle, stillstands on its mound close by. But I won't attempt to describe our peculiar home fully untilI can
see more time ahead of me than I do now.
I am writing this journalpartly to practice my newly acquired speed-writing and partly to teach myself how to
write a novel-I intend to capture all ourcharacters and put in conversations. It ought to be good for my style to