He said this quite calmly, and I was frightened, and did not like him any
more.
Besides the master, there were serving in the shop my cousin, Sascha Jaakov,
and the senior assistant, a competent, unctuous person with a red face.
Sascha now wore a brown frock-coat, a false shirt-front, a cravat, and long
trousers, and was too proud to take any notice of me.
When grandfather had brought me to my master, he had asked Sascha to
help me and to teach me. Sascha had frowned with an air of importance as he
said warningly:
“He will have to do what I tell him, then.”
Laying his hand on my head, grandfather had forced me to bend my neck.
“You are to obey him; he is older than you both in years and experience.”
And Sascha said to me, with a nod :
“Don’t forget what grandfather has said.” He lost no time in profiting by his
seniority.
“Kashirin, don’t look so goggle-eyed,” his master would advise him.
“I— I ‘m all right,” Sascha would mutter, putting his head down. But the
master would not leave him alone.
“Don’t butt; the customers will think you are a goat.”
The assistant smiled respectfully, the master stretched his lips in a hideous
grin, and Sascha, his face flushing, retreated behind the counter. I did not like
the tone of these conversations. Many of the words they used were
unintelligible to me, and sometimes they seemed to be speaking in a strange
language. When a lady customer came in, the master would take his hands
out of his pockets, tug at his mustache, and fix a sweet smile upon his face —
a smile which wrinkled his cheeks, but did not change the expression of his
dull eyes. The assistant would draw himself up, with his elbows pressed
closely against his sides, and his wrists respectfully dangling. Sascha would
blink shyly, trying to hide his protruding eyes, while I would stand at the door,
surreptitiously scratching my hands, and observing the ceremonial of selling.
Kneeling before the customer, the assistant would try on shoes with wonderfully
deft fingers. He touched the foot of the woman so carefully that his hands
trembled, as if he were afraid of breaking her leg. But the leg was stout enough.
It looked like a bottle with sloping shoulders, turned neck downward.
One of these ladies pulled her foot away one day, shrieking :
“Oh, you are tickling me!”
“That is — because — you are so sensitive,” the assistant explained hastily,
with warmth.
It was comical to watch him fawning upon the customers, and I had to turn
and look through the glass of the door to keep myself from laughing. But
something used to draw me back to watcli the sale. The proceedings of