UNTIL HE WAS FOUR years old, James Henry Trotter
had had a happy life. He lived peacefully with his
mother and father in a beautiful house beside the
sea. There were always plenty of other children for
him to play with, and there was the sandy beach
for him to run about on, and the ocean to paddle in.
It was the perfect life for a small boy.
Then, one day, James's mother and father went
to London to do some shopping, and there a
terrible thing happened. Both of them suddenly
got eaten up (in full daylight, mind you, and on a
crowded street) by an enormous angry rhinoceros
which had escaped from the London Zoo.
Now this, as you can well imagine, was a rather
nasty experience for two such gentle parents. Butin the long run it was far nastier for James than itwas for them. Their troubles were all over in a jiffy.They were dead and gone in thirty-five secondsflat. Poor James, on the other hand, was still verymuch alive, and all at once he found himselfalone and frightened in a vast unfriendly world.The lovely house by the seaside had to be soldimmediately, and the little boy, carrying nothingbut a small suitcase containing a pair of pajamasand a toothbrush, was sent away to live with histwo aunts.
Their names were Aunt Sponge and Aunt Spiker,and I am sorry to say that they were both reallyhorrible people. They were selfish and lazy andcruel, and right from the beginning they startedbeating poor James for almost no reason at all.They never called him by his real name, but always referred to him as "you disgusting little beast" or
"you filthy nuisance" or "you miserable creature,"
and they certainly never gave him any toys to play
with or any picture books to look at. His room was
as bare as a prison cell.
They lived-Aunt Sponge, Aunt Spiker, and now
James as well-in a queer ramshackle house on the
top of a high hill in the south of England. The
hill was so high that from almost anywhere in the
garden James could look down and see for miles
and miles across a marvelous landscape of woods
and fields; and on a very clear day, if he looked in
the right direction, he could see a tiny gray dot far
away on the horizon, which was the house that he
used to live in with his beloved mother and father.
And just beyond that, he could see the ocean itself
-a long thin streak of blackish-blue, like a line of
ink, beneath the rim of the sky.
But James was never allowed to go down off thetop of that hill. Neither Aunt Sponge nor AuntSpiker could ever be bothered to take him out
herself, not even for a small walk or a picnic, andhe certainly wasn't permitted to go alone. "The
nasty little beast will only get into mischief if hegoes out of the garden," Aunt Spiker had said. Andterrible punishments were promised him, such as
being locked up in the cellar with the rats for a
week, if he even so much as dared to climb over thefence.
The garden, which covered the whole of the top
of the hill, was large and desolate, and the only
tree in the entire place (apart from a clump of dirty
old laurel bushes at the far end) was an ancientpeach tree that never gave any peaches. There was
no swing, no seesaw, no sand pit, and no otherchildren were ever invited to come up the hill to
play with poor James. There wasn't so much as a
dog or a cat around to keep him company. And as
time went on, he became sadder and sadder, andmore and more lonely, and he used to spend hoursevery day standing at the bottom of the garden,gazing wistfully at the lovely but forbidden worldof woods and fields and ocean that was spread out
below him like a magic carpet.