Introduction
"The InGen Incident"
The late twentieth century has witnessed a scientific gold rush of astonishing proportions: the headlong and
furious haste to commercialize genetic engineering. This enterprise has proceeded so rapidly-with so little
outside commentary-that its dimensions and implications are hardly understood at all.
Biotechnology promises the greatest revolution in human history. By the end of this decade, it will have
outdistanced atomic power and computers in its effect on our everyday lives. In the words of one observer,
"Biotechnology is going to transform every aspect of human life: our medical care, our food, our health, our
entertainment, our very bodies. Nothing will ever be the same again. It's literally going to change the face of the
planet."
But the biotechnology revolution differs in three important respects from past scientific transformations.
First, it is broad-based. America entered the atomic age through the work of a single research institution, at
Los Alamos. It entered the computer age through the efforts of about a dozen companies. But biotecbnology
research is now carried out in more than two thousand laboratories in America alone. Five hundred corporations
spend five billion dollars a year on this technology.
Second, much of the research is thoughtless or frivolous. Efforts to engineer paler trout for better visibility
in the stream, square trees for easier lumbering, and injectable scent cells so you'll always smell of your favorite
perfume may seem like a joke, but they are not. Indeed, the fact that biotechnology can be applied to the
industries traditionally subject to the vagaries of fashion, such as cosmetics and leisure activities, heightens
concern about the whimsical use of this powerful new technology.
Third, the work is uncontrolled. No one supervises it. No federal laws regulate it. There is no coherent
government policy, in America or anywhere else in the world. And because the products of biotechnology range
from drugs to farmcrops to artificial snow, an intelligent policy is difficult.
But most disturbing is the fact that no watchdogs are found among scientists themselves. It is remarkable
that nearly every scientist in genetics research is also engaged in the commerce of biotechnology. There are no
detached observers. Everybody has a stake.
The commercialization of molecular biology is the most stunning ethical event in the history of science, and it
has happened with astonishing speed. For four hundred years since Galileo, science has always proceeded as a
free and open inquiry into the workings of nature. Scientists have always ignored national boundaries, holding
themselves above the transitory concerns of politics and even wars. Scientists have always rebelled against
secrecy in research, and have even frowned on the idea of patenting their discoveries, seeing themse