CHAPTER 1
My suffering left me sadand gloomy.
Academic study and thesteady, mindfulpractice of religion slowly wrought me backto life. I have kept
up with what some people would consider my strange religious practices. Afterone yearof high school,
I attended the University of Toronto and tooka double-major Bachelor's degree. My majors were
religious studies and zoology. My fourth-year thesis for religious studies concerned certain aspects of
the cosmogony theory of Isaac Luria, the greatsixteenth-century Kabbalist from Safed. My
zoology thesis was a functionalanalysis of the thyroid gland of the three-toed sloth. I chose
the sloth because its demeanour calm, quiet and introspective did something to soothe my shattered
self.
There are two-toed sloths and there are three-toed sloths, the case being determined by the forepaws of
the animals, since allsloths have three claws on their hind paws. I had the greatluck one summer of
studying the three-toed sloth in situ (in its naturalplace or position) in the equatorial jungles of Brazil. It
is a highly intriguing creature. Its only realhabit is indolence. It sleeps or rests on average twenty hours
a day. Our team tested the sleep habits of five wild three-toed sloths by placing on their heads, in the
early evening after they had fallen asleep,bright red plastic dishes filled with water. We found them still
in place late the next morning, the water of the dishes swarming with insects.The sloth is at its busiest at
sunset,using the word busy here in the most relaxed sense. It moves along the bough of a tree in its
characteristic upside-down position at the speed of roughly 400 metres an hour. On the ground, it crawls
to its next tree atthe rate of 250 metres an hour, when motivated, which is 440 times slower than a
motivated cheetah. Unmotivated, it covers four to five metres in an hour.
The three-toedsloth is not well informed about the outside world. On a scale of 2 to 10, where 2
represents unusualdullness and 10 extreme acuity, Beebe (1926) gave the sloths senses of taste, touch,
sight and hearing a rating of 2,and its sense of smella rating of 3. If you come upon a sleeping three-
toed sloth in the wild, two or three nudges should suffice to awaken it; it willthen look sleepily in every
direction but yours. Why it should look about is uncertain since the sloth sees everything in a Magoo-
like blur. As for hearing, the sloth is not so much deaf as uninterested in sound. Beebe reported that
firing guns next to sleeping or feeding sloths elicited little reaction. And the sloth's slightly better sense
of smellshould not be overestimated. They are said to be able to sniff and avoid decayed branches, but
Bullock (1968) reported that sloths fallto the ground clinging to decayed branches "often".
How does it survive, you might ask Precisely by being so slow. Sleepiness and slothfulness keep it out of harm's way, away from the notice
of jaguars, ocelots, harpy eagles and anacondas.A sloth's hairs shelter an algae that is brown during the
dry season and green during the wet season,so the animal blends in with the surrounding moss and
foliage and looks like a nest ofwhite ants or of squirrels, or like nothing at allbut part of a tree.
The three-toedsloth lives a peaceful,vegetarian life in perfect harmony with its environment. "A good-
natured smile is forever on its lips," reported Tirler (1966). I have seen thatsmile with my own eyes.I
amnot one given to projecting human traits and emotions onto animals,but many a time during that
month in Brazil, looking up at sloths in repose, I felt I was in the presence of upside-down yogis deep in
meditation or hermits deep in prayer, wise beings whose intense imaginative lives were beyond the
reach of my scientific probing.
Sometimes Igot my majors mixed up. A number of my fellow religious-studies students muddled
agnostics who didn't know which way was up,who were in the thrallof reason, that fool's gold for the
bright reminded me of the three-toed sloth; and the three-toed sloth,such a beautifulexample of the
miracle of life, reminded me of God.
I never had problems with my fellow scientists. Scientists are a friendly,atheistic, hard-working, beer-
drinking lot whose minds are preoccupied with sex, chess and baseballwhen they are not preoccupied
with science.