FOREWORD
Lolita, or the Confession of a White Widowed Male,”
such were the two titles under which the writer of the present
note received the strange pages it preambulates. "Humbert
Humbert," their author, had died in legal captivity, of coronary
thrombosis, on November 16, 1952, a few days before his trial
was scheduled to start. His lawyer, my good friend and relation,
Clarence Choate Clark, Esq., now of the District of Columbia
bar, in asking me to edit the manuscript, based his request on a
clause in his client's will which empowered my eminent cousin
to use his discretion in all matters pertaining to the preparation
of "Lolita" for print. Mr. Clark's decision may have been in¬
fluenced by the fact that the editor of his choice had fust been
awarded the Poling Prize for a modest work (“Do the Senses
make Sense?”) wherein certain morbid states and perversions
had been discussed.
My task proved simpler than either of us had anticipated.
Save for the correction of obvious solecisms and a careful sup¬
pression of a few tenacious details that despite "HH.” 's own
efforts still subsisted in his text as signposts and tombstones (indicative of places-or persons that taste would conceal and
compassion spare), this remaikable memoir is presented intact
Its author’s bizarre cognomen is his own invention; and, of
course, this mash—through which two hypnotic eyes seem to
glow—had to remain unfitted in accordance with its wearer’s
wish. While “Haze” only rhymes with the heroine’s real sur¬
name, her first name is too closely interwound with the inmost
fiber of the book to allow one to alter it; nor (as the reader will
perceive tor himselt) is there any practical necessity to do so.
References to “HU.” 's crime may be looked up by the in¬
quisitive in the daily papers for September 1952; its cause and
purpose would have continued to remain a complete mystery,
had not this memoir been permitted to come under my read¬
ing lamp.
For the benefit of old-fashioned readers who wish to follow
the destinies of the “real” people beyond the “true” story, a
few details may be given as received from Mr. “Windmuller,”
of “Ramsdale," who desires his identity suppressed so that “the
long shadow of this sorry and sordid business” should not reach
the community to which he is proud to belong. His daughter,
“Louise,” is by now a college sophomore, “Mona Dahl” is a
student in Paris. “Rita” has recently married the proprietor of
a hotel in Florida. Mrs. “Richard F. Schiller” died in childbed,
giving birth to a stillborn girl, on Christmas Day 1952, in Gray
Star, a settlement in the remotest Northwest. “Vivian Dark-
bloom” has written a biography, “My Cue,” to be published
shortly, and critics who have perused the manuscript call it her
best book. The caretakers of the various cemeteries involved
report that no ghosts walk.
Viewed simply as a novel, “Lolita” deals with situations and
emotions that would remain exasperatingly vague to the reader
bad their expression been etiolated by means of platitudinous
evasions. True, not a single obscene term is to be found in the
whole work; indeed, the robust philistine who is conditioned
by modem conventions into accepting without qualms a lavish
array of four-letter words in a banal novel, will be quite shocked
by their absence here. If, however, for this paradoxical prude's
comfort, an editor attempted to dilute or omit scenes that a
certain type of mind might call “aphrodisiac” (sec in this
respect the monumental decision rendered December 6, 1933,
by Hon. John M. Woolsey in regard to another, considerably
more outspoken, book), one would have to forego the publica¬