one hundred thirty-six days before
THE WEEK BEFORE I left my family and Florida and the rest of my minor
life to go to boarding school in Alabama, my mother insisted on throwing me
a going-away party. To say that I had low expectations would be to
underestimate the matter dramatically. Although I was more or less forced to
invite all my “school friends,” i.e., the ragtag bunch of drama people and
English geeks I sat with by social necessity in the cavernous cafeteria of my
public school, I knew they wouldn’t come. Still, my mother persevered,
awash in the delusion that I had kept my popularity secret from her all these
years. She cooked a small mountain of artichoke dip. She festooned our living
room in green and yellow streamers, the colors of my new school. She bought
two dozen champagne poppers and placed them around the edge of our coffee
table.
And when that final Friday came, when my packing was mostly done, she
sat with my dad and me on the living-room couch at 4:56 P.M. and patiently
awaited the arrival of the Good-bye to Miles Cavalry. Said cavalry consisted
of exactly two people: Marie Law-son, a tiny blonde with rectangular glasses,
and her chunky (to put it charitably) boyfriend, Will.
“Hey, Miles,” Marie said as she sat down.
“Hey,” I said.
“How was your summer?” Will asked.
“Okay. Yours?”
“Good. We did Jesus Christ Superstar. I helped with the sets. Marie did
lights,” said Will.
“That’s cool.” I nodded knowingly, and that about exhausted our
conversational topics. I might have asked a question about Jesus Christ
Superstar, except that 1. I didn’t know what it was, and 2. I didn’t care to
learn, and 3. I never really excelled at small talk. My mom, however, can talk
small for hours, and so she extended the awkwardness by asking them about
their rehearsal schedule, and how the show had gone, and whether it was a
success.
“I guess it was,” Marie said. “A lot of people came, I guess.” Marie was the
sort of person to guess a lot.
Finally, Will said, “Well, we just dropped by to say good-bye. I’ve got to
get Marie home by six. Have fun at boarding school, Miles.”