Chapter 1
A destiny that leads the English to the Dutch is strange enough; but one that leads fromEpsom into
Pennsylvania, and thence into the hills that shut in Altamont over the proud coralcry of the cock, and
the soft stone smile of an angel, is touched by that dark miracle of chance which makes new magic in a
dusty world.
Each of us is allthe sums he has not counted:subtract us into nakedness and night again, and you
shall see begin in Crete four thousand years ago the love that ended yesterday in Texas.
The seed ofour destruction willblossom in the desert, the alexin of our cure grows by a mountain
rock, and our lives are haunted by a Georgia slattern, because a London cut-purse went unhung.
Each moment is the fruit of forty thousand years. The minute-winning days, like flies, buzz home to
death, and every moment is a window onall time.
This is a moment:
An Englishman named Gilbert Gaunt,which he later changed to Gant (a concession probably to
Yankee phonetics), having come to Baltimore from Bristolin 1837 on a sailing vessel, soon let the
profits of a public house which he had purchased rolldown his improvident gullet. He wandered
westward into Pennsylvania, eking out a dangerous living by matching fighting cocks against the champions of countrybarnyards, and oftenescaping after a night spent ina village jail, with his
champion dead on the field of battle, without the clink of a coin in his pocket, and sometimes with the
print of a farmer's big knuckles on his reckless face. But he always escaped, and coming at length
among the Dutch at harvest time he was so touched by the plenty of their land that he cast out his
anchors there. Withina year he married a rugged young widow with a tidy farm who like all the
other Dutch had beencharmed by his air of travel, and his grandiose speech, particularly when he did
Hamlet in the manner of the great Edmund Kean. Everyone said he should have been anactor.
The Englishman begot children--a daughter and four sons--lived easily and carelessly, and bore
patientlythe weight of his wife's harshbut honest tongue. The years passed, his bright somewhat
staring eyes grew dull and bagged, the tallEnglishman walked with a gouty shuffle:one morning
when she came to nag him out of sleep she found him dead of an apoplexy. He left five children, a
mortgage and--in his strange dark eyes which now stared bright and open--something that had not
died:a passionate and obscure hunger for voyages.