'THEY made a silly mistake, though,' the Professor of History said, and his smile, as Dixon watched, gradually
sank beneath the surface of his features at the memory. 'After the interval we did a little piece by Dowland,' he
went on; 'for recorder and keyboard, you know. I played the recorder, of course, and young Johns ...' He paused,
and his trunk grew rigid as he walked; it was as if some entirely different man, some impostor who couldn't copy
his voice, had momentarily taken his place; then he went on again: '... young Johns played the piano. Versatile
lad, that; the oboe's his instrument, really. Well anyway, the reporter chap must have got the story wrong, or not
been listening, or something. Anyway, there it was in the _Post _as large as life: Dowland, yes, they'd got him
right; Messrs Welch and Johns, yes; but what do you think they said then?'
Dixon shook his head. 'I don't know, Professor,' he said in sober veracity. No other professor in Great
Britain, he thought, set such store by being called Professo'Flute and piano.'
'Oh?'
'Flute and piano; not recorder and piano.' Welch laughed briefly. ' Now a recorder, you know, isn't like a
flute, though it's the flute's immediate ancestor, of course. To begin with, it's played, that's therecorder, what they
call _a bee, _that's to say you blow into a shaped mouthpiece like that of an oboe or a clarinet, you see. A
present-day flute's played what's known as _traverso, _in other words you blow across a hole instead of...'
As Welch again seemed becalmed, even slowing further in his walk, Dixon relaxed at his side. He'd found
his professor standing, surprisingly enough, in front of the Recent Additions shelf in the College Library, and
they were now moving diagonally across a small lawn towards the front of the main building of the College. To
look at, but not only to look at, they resembled some kind of variety act: Welch tall and weedy, with limp
whitening hair, Dixon on the short side, fair and round-faced, with an unusual breadth of shoulder that had never
been accompanied by any special physical strength or skill. Despite this over-evident contrast between them,
Dixon realized that their progress, deliberate and to all appearances thoughtful, must seem rather donnish to
passing students. He and Welch might well be talking about history, and in the way history might be talked about
in Oxford and Cambridge quadrangles. At moments like this Dixon came near to wishing that they really were.
He held on to this thought until animation abruptly gathered again and burst in the older man, so that he began
speaking almost in a shout, with a tremolo imparted by unshared laughter:
' There was the most marvellous mix-up in the piece they did just before the interval. The young fellow
playing the viola had the misfortune to turn over two pages at once, and the resulting confusion ... my word ...'
Quickly deciding on his own word, Dixon said it to himself and then tried to flail his features into some sort
of response to humour. Mentally, however, he was making a different face and promising himself he'd make it
actually when next alone. He'd draw his lower lip in under his top teeth and by degrees retract his chin as far as
possible, all this while dilating his eyes and nostrils. By these means he would, he was confident, cause a deep
dangerous flush to suffuse his face.
Welch was talking yet again about his concert. How had he become Professor of History, even at a place
like this? By published work? No. By extra good teaching? No in italics. Then how? As usual, Dixon shelved this
question, telling himself that what mattered was that this man had decisive power over his future, at any rate until
the next four or five weeks were up. Until then he must try to make Welch like him, and one way of doing that
was, he supposed, to be present and conscious while Welch talked about concerts. But did Welch notice who else
was there while he talked, and if henoticed did he remember, and if he remembered would it affect such thoughts
as he had already? Then, abruptly, with no warning, the second of Dixon's two predicaments flapped up into
consciousness. Shuddering in his efforts to repress a yawn of nervousness, he asked In his flat northern voice:
'How's Margaret these days?'