Chapter one
Suppose that you and I were sitting in a quiet room overlooking a gar -1
den, chatting and sipping at our cups of green tea while we talked J
about something that had happened a long while ago, and I said to you,
"That afternoon when I met so-and-so . . . was the very best afternoon
of my life, and also the very worst afternoon." I expect you might put
down your teacup and say, "Well, now, which was it? Was it the best
or the worst? Because it can't possibly have been both!" Ordinarily
I'd have to laugh at myself and agree with you. But the truth is that
the afternoon when I met Mr. Tanaka Ichiro really was the best and the
worst of my life. He seemed so fascinating to me, even the fish smell
on his hands was a kind of perfume. If I had never known him, I'm sure
I would not have become a geisha.
I wasn't born and raised to be a Kyoto geisha. I wasn't even born in
Kyoto. I'm a fisherman's daughter from a little town called Yoroido
on the Sea of Japan. In all my life I've never told more than a handful
of people anything at all about Yoroido, or about the house in which
I grew up, or about my mother and father, or my older sister -and certainly
not about how I became a geisha, or what it was like to be one. Most
people would much rather carry on with their fantasies that my mother
and grandmother were geisha, and that I began my training in dance when
I was weaned from the breast, and so on. As a matter of fact, one day
many years ago I was pouring a cup of sake for a man who happened to
mention that he had been in Yoroido only the previous week. Well, I
felt as a bird must feel when it has flown across the ocean and comes
upon a creature that knows its nest. I was so shocked I couldn't stop
myself from saying:
"Yoroido! Why, that's where I grew up!"
This poor man! His face went through the most remarkable series of
changes. He tried his best to smile, though it didn't come out well
because he couldn't get the look of shock off his face.
"Yoroido?" he said. "You can't mean it."
I long ago developed a very practiced smile, which I call my "Noh smile" because it resembles a Noh mask whose features are frozen. Its advantage
is that men can interpret it however they want; you can imagine how
often I've relied on it. I decided I'd better use it just then, and
of course it worked. He let out all his breath and tossed down the cup
of sake I'd poured for him before giving an enormous laugh I'm sure
was prompted more by relief than anything else.
"The very idea!" he said, with another big laugh. "You, growing up in
a dump like Yoroido. That's like making tea in a bucket!" And when he'd
laughed again, he said to me, "That's why you're so much fun, Sayuri -san.
Sometimes you almost make me believe your little jokes are real."
I don't much like thinking of myself as a cup of tea made in a bucket,
but I suppose in a way it must be true. After all, I did grow up in
Yoroido, and no one would suggest it's a glamorous spot. Hardly anyone
ever visits it. As for the people who live there, they never have occasion
to leave. You're probably wondering how I came to leave it myself. That's
where my story begins.