I stare down at my shoes, watching as a fine layer of ash settles on the worn leather. This is where the bed I
shared with my sister, Prim, stood. Over there was the kitchen table. The bricks of the chimney, which collapsed
in a charred heap, provide a point of reference for the rest of the house. How else could I orient myself in this seaof gray?
Almost nothing remains of District 12.A month ago, the Capitol's firebombs obliterated the poor coal
miners' houses in the Seam, the shops in the town, even the Justice Building. The only area that escaped
incineration was the Victor's Village. I don't know why exactly. Perhaps so anyone forced to come here on
Capitol business would have somewhere decent to stay. The odd reporter.A committee assessing the condition
of the coal mines.A squad of Peacekeepers checking for returning refugees.
But no one is returning except me.And that's only for a brief visit. The authorities in District 13 were against
my coming back. They viewed it as a costly and pointless venture, given that at least a dozen invisible hovercraft
are circling overhead for my protection and there's no intelligence to be gained. I had to see it, though. So much
so that Imade it a condition of my cooperating with any of their plans.
Finally, Plutarch Heavensbee, the Head Gamemaker who had organized the rebels in the Capitol, threw up
his hands. "Let her go. Better to waste a day than another month. Maybe a little tour of Twelve is just what she
needs to convince her we're on the same side."
The same side.A pain stabs my left temple and I press my hand against it. Right on the spot where
Johanna Mason hit me with the coil of wire. The memories swirl as I try to sort out what is true and what is false. What series of events led me to be standing in the ruins of my city? This is hard because the effects of the
concussion she gave me haven't completely subsided and my thoughts still have a tendency to jumble together.
Also, the drugs they use to control my pain and mood sometimes make me see things. I guess. I'm still not
entirely convinced that Iwas hallucinating the night the floor of my hospital room transformed into a carpet of
writhing snakes.
I use a technique one of the doctors suggested. I start with the simplest things I know to be true and work
toward the more complicated. The list begins to roll in my head....
My name is Katniss Everdeen. I am seventeen years old. My home is District 12. I was in the Hunger
Games. I escaped. The Capitol hates me. Peeta was taken prisoner. He is thought to be dead. Most likely he
is dead. It is probably best if he is dead....
"Katniss. Should I come down?" My best friend Gale's voice reaches me through the headset the rebels
insisted Iwear. He's up in a hovercraft, watching me carefully, ready to swoop in if anything goes amiss. Irealize
I'm crouched down now, elbows on my thighs, my head braced between my hands. Imust look on the verge of
some kind of breakdown. This won't do. Not when they're finally weaning me off the medication.
I straighten up and wave his offer away. "No. I'm fine." To reinforce this, I begin to move away from my old
house and in toward the town. Gale asked to be dropped off in 12 with me, but he didn't force the issue when I
refused his company. He understands I don't want anyone with me today. Not even him. Some walks you have to
take alone.
The summer's been scorching hot and dry as a bone. There's been next to no rain to disturb the piles of
ash left by the attack. They shift here and there, in reaction to my footsteps. No breeze to scatter them. I keep my
eyes on what Iremember as the road, because when I first landed in the Meadow, Iwasn't careful and Iwalked
right into a rock. Only it wasn't a rock--it was someone's skull. It rolled over and over and landed faceup, and for along time I couldn't stop looking at the teeth, wondering whose they were, thinking of how mine would probably
look the same way under similar circumstances.
I stick to the road out of habit, but it's a bad choice, because it's full of the remains of those who tried to
flee. Some were incinerated entirely. But others, probably overcome with smoke, escaped the worst of the
flames and now lie reeking in various states of decomposition, carrion for scavengers, blanketed by flies. I killedyou, I think as I pass a pile. And you.And you.
Because I did. It was my arrow, aimed at the chink in the force field surrounding the arena, that brought on