Chapter One
My name is Kathy H.I'm thirty-one years old, and I've been a carer now forover eleven years.That sounds long enough,l know, but actually they wantme to go on for another eight months, until the end of this year. That'l makeit almost exactly twelve years. Now l know my being a carer so long isn'tnecessarily because they think I'm fantastic at what l do. There are somereally good carers who've been told to stop after just two or three years. And lcan think of one carer at least who went on for all of fourteen years despitebeing a complete waste of space. So I'm not trying to boast. But then ldoknow for a fact they've been pleased with my work, and by and large,l havetoo.My donors have always tended to do much better than expected. Theirrecovery times have been impressive, and hardly any of them have beenclassified as "agitated," even before fourth donation.Okay, maybelamboasting now. But it means a lot to me, being able to do my work well,especially that bit about my donors staying "calm."I've developed a kind ofinstinct around donors.l know when to hang around and comfort them,when to leave them to themselves; when to listen to everything they have tosay, and when just to shrug and tell them to snap out of it.
Anyway,I'm not making any big claims for myself.l know carers, workingnow, who are just as good and don't get half the credit. lf you're one of themIcan understand how you might get resentful-about my bedsit, my car,above all, the way lget to pick and choose who llook after. And l'm aHailsham student-which is enough by itself sometimes to get people's backsup. Kathy H., they say, she gets to pick and choose, and she always choosesher own kind: people from Hailsham, or one of the other privileged estates.No wonder she has a great record.l've heard it said enough, so l'm sure
you've heard it plenty more, and maybe there's something in it. But I'm notthe first to be allowed to pick and choose, and l doubt if I'll be the last. Andanyway, l've done my share of looking after donors brought up in every kindof place. By the timelfinish, remember, I'll have done twelve years of this,and it's only for the last six they've let me choose.
And why shouldn't they? Carers aren't machines. You try and do your bestfor every donor, but in the end, it wears you down. You don't have unlimitedpatience and energy. So when you get a chance to choose, of course, youchoose your own kind.That's natural. There's no way l could have gone onfor as long as l have if I'd stopped feeling for my donors every step of the way.And anyway, if I'd never started choosing, how would l ever have got closeagain to Ruth and Tommy after all those years?
But these days, of course, there are fewer and fewer donors left who lremember, and so in practice,l haven't been choosing that much. As l say.the work gets a lot harder when you don't have that deeper link with thedonor, and though I'll miss being a carer, it feels just about right to befinishing at last come the end of the year.
Ruth, incidentally, was only the third or fourth donor l got to choose. Shealready had a carer assigned to her at the time, and l remember it taking a bitof nerve on my part. Butin the end l managed it, and the instant l saw heragain, at that recovery centre in Dover, all our differences-while they didn'texactly vanish-seemed not nearly as important as all the other things:likethe fact that we'd grown up together at Hailsham, the fact that we knew andremembered things no one else did. lt's ever since then,lsuppose,l startedseeking out for my donors people from the past, and whenever l could, peoplefrom Hailsham.
There have been times over the years when I've tried to leave Hailshambehind, when I've told myselfl shouldn't look back so much. But then therecame a point when ljust stopped resisting. lt had to do with this particulardonorl had once,in my third year as a carer; it was his reaction when lmentioned lwas from Hailsham. He'd just come through his third donationit hadn't gone well, and he must have known he wasn't going to make it. Hecould hardly breathe, but he looked towards me and said:"Hailsham.l betthat was a beautiful place."Then the next morning, when lwas makingconversation to keep his mind off it all, and l asked where he'd grown up, hementioned some place in Dorset and his face beneath the blotches went intoa completely new kind of grimace. And lrealised then how desperately hedidn't want reminded.instead, he wanted to hear about Hailsham.