Psychedelic sixties. God knows that whatever that means it cer-
tainly meant far more than drugs, though drugs still work as a
pretty good handle to the phenomena.

I grabbed that handle. Legally, too, I might add. Almost patrioti-
cally, in fact. Early psychedelic sixties . . .

Eight o'clock every Tuesday morning I showed up at the vets’ hos-
pital in Menlo Park, ready to roll. The doctor deposited me in a little
room on his ward, dealt me a couple of pills or a shot or a little glass of
bitter juice, then locked the door. He checked back every forty minutes
to see if I was still alive, took some tests, asked some questions, left
again. The rest of the time I spent studying the inside of my forehead,
or looking out the one little window in the door. It was six inches wide
and eight inches high, and it had heavy chicken wire inside the glass.

You get your visions through whatever gate you're granted.

Patients straggled by in the hall outside, their faces all ghastly con-
fessions. Sometimes I looked at them and sometimes they looked at
me, but rarely did we look at one another. It was too naked and painful.
More was revealed in a human face than a human being can bear, face-
to-face.

Sometimes the nurse came by and checked on me. Her face was
different. It was painful business, but not naked. This was not a person
you could allow yourself to be naked in front of.

Six months or so later I had finished the drug experiments and ap-
plied for a job. I was taken on as a nurse's aide, in the same ward, with
the same doctor, under the same nurse—and you must understand
we're talking about a huge hospital here! It was weird.

But, as I said, this was the sixties.

Those faces were still there, still painfully naked. To ward them off
my case I very prudently took to carrying around a little notebook, to
scribble notes. I got a lot of compliments from nurses: “Good for you,
Mr. Kesey. That's the spirit. Get to know these men.”

I also scribbled faces. No, that’s not correct. As I prowl through
this stack of sketches I can see that these faces bored their way behind
my forehead and scribbled themselves. I just held the pen and waited
for the magic to happen.

This was, after all, the sixties.