There's a guy like me in every state and federal prison in
America, I guess - I'm the guy who can get it for you.
Tailor-made cigarettes, a bag of reefer, if you're partial to
that, a bottle of brandy to celebrate your son or
daughter's high school graduation, or almost anything
else ... within reason, that is. It wasn't always that way.
I came to Shawshank when I was just twenty, and I am
one of the few people in our happy little family who is
willing to own up to what he did. I committed murder. I
put a large insurance policy on my wife, who was three
years older than I was, and then I fixed the brakes of the
Chevrolet coupe her father had given us as a wedding
present. It worked out exactly as I had planned, except I
hadn't planned on her stopping to pick up the neighbour
woman and the neighbour woman's infant son on the
way down Castle Hill and into town. The brakes let go
and the car crashed through the bushes at the edge of
the town common, gathering speed. Bystanders said it
must have been doing fifty or better when it hit the base
of the Civil War statue and burst into flames.
I also hadn't planned on getting caught, but caught I was.
I got a season's pass into this place. Maine has no death
penalty, but the district attorney saw to it that I was tried
for all three deaths and given three life sentences, to run
one after the other. That fixed up any chance of parole I
might have, for a long, long time. The judge called what I
had done 'a hideous, heinous crime', and it was, but it is
also in the past now. You can look it up in the yellowing
files of the Castle Rock Call, where the big headlines
announcing my conviction look sort of funny and antique
next to the news of Hitler and Mussolini and FDR's
alphabet soup agencies.
Have I rehabilitated myself, you ask? I don't know what
that word means, at least as far as prisons and
corrections go. I think it's a politician's word. It may have
some other meaning, and it may be that I will have a
chance to find out, but that is the future ... something
cons teach themselves not to think about. I was young,
good-looking, and from the poor side of town. I knocked
up a pretty, sulky, headstrong girl who lived in one of the
fine old houses on Carbine Street. Her father was