All this happened, more or less. The war parts, anyway, are pretty much true. One guy I
knew really was shot in Dresden for taking a teapot that wasn't his. Another guy I knew
really did threaten to have his personal enemies killed by hired gunmen after the war.
And so on. I've changed all the names.
 I really did go back to Dresden with Guggenheim money (God love it) in 1967. It
looked a lot like Dayton, Ohio, more open spaces than Dayton has. There must be tons of
human bone meal in the ground.
 I went back there with an old war buddy, Bernard V. O'Hare, and we made friends
with a taxi driver, who took us to the slaughterhouse where we had been locked up at
night as prisoner of war. His name was Gerhard Müller. He told us that he was a prisoner
of the Americans for a while. We asked him how it was to live under Communism, and
he said that it was terrible at first, because everybody had to work so hard, and because
there wasn't much shelter or food or clothing. But things were much better now. He had a
pleasant little apartment, and his daughter was getting an excellent education. His mother
was incinerated in the Dresden fire-storm. So it goes.
 He sent O'Hare a postcard at Christmastime, and here is what it said:
 'I wish you and your family also as to your friend Merry Christmas and a happy New
Year and I hope that we'll meet again in a world of peace and freedom in the taxi cab if
the accident will.'
 I like that very much: 'If the accident will.'
 I would hate to tell you what this lousy little book cost me in money and anxiety and
time. When I got home from the Second World War twenty-three years ago, I thought it
would be easy for me to write about the destruction of Dresden, since all I would have to
do would be to report what I had seen. And I thought, too, that it would be a masterpiece
or at least make me a lot of money, since the subject was so big.
 But not many words about Dresden came from my mind then-not enough of them to
make a book, anyway. And not many words come now, either, when I have become an
old fart with his memories and his Pall Malls, with his sons full grown. I think of how
useless the Dresden-part of my memory has been, and yet how tempting Dresden has
been to write about, and I am reminded of the famous limerick:
There was a young man from Stamboul,
Who soliloquized thus to his tool,
'You took all my wealth
And you ruined my health,
And now you won't pee, you old fool’
 And I'm reminded, too, of the song that goes
My name is Yon Yonson,
I work in Wisconsin,
I work in a lumbermill there.
The people I meet when I walk down the street,
They say, 'What's your name?