PROLOGUE
A Friday in November
It happened every year, was almost a ritual. And this was his eighty- second birthday.
When, as usual, the flower was delivered, he took off the wrapping paper and then
picked up the telephone to call Detective Superintendent Morell who, when he retired,
had moved to Lake Siljan in Dalarna. They were not only the same age, they had been
born on the same day—which was something of an irony under the circumstances.
The old policem an was sitting with his coffee, waiting, expecting the call.
“It arrived.”
“What is it this year?”
“I don’t know what kind it is. I’ll have to get someone to tell me what it is. It’s
white.” “No letter, I suppose.”
“Just the flower. The frame is the same kind as last year. One of those do-it-
yourself ones.” “Postmark?”
'Stockholm.
“Ha ndwriti ng ?
"Same as always, all in capitals. Upright, neat lettering.With that, the subject was exhausted, and not another word was exchanged for almosta minute. The retired policeman leaned back in his kitchen chair and drew on his pipeHe knew he was no longer expected to come up with a pithy comment or any sharpguestion which would shed a new light on the case. Those days had long sincepassed, and the exchange between the two men seemed like a ritual attaching to amystery which no-one else in the whole world had the least interest in unravelling.
The Latin name was Leptospermum (Myrtaceae) rubinette. lt was a plant aboutfour inches high with small, heather-like foliage and a white flower with five petalsabout one inch across..
The plant was native to the Australian bush and uplands, where it was to be found amongtussocks of grass. There it was called Desert Snow. Someone at the botanical gardens inUppsala would later confirm that it was a plant seldom cultivated in Sweden. The botaniswrote in her report that it was related to the tea tree and that it was sometimes confusedwith its more common cousin Leptospermum scoparium, which grew in abundance in NevZealand. What distinguished them, she pointed out, was that rubinette had a small numbeof microscopic pink dots at the tips of the petals, giving the flower a faint pinkish tinge.Rubinette was altogether an unpretentious flower. lt had no known medicinaproperties, and it could not induce hallucinatory experiences. lt was neither edible, nohad a use in the manufacture of plant dyes. On the other hand, the aboriginal peopleof Australia regarded as sacred the region and the flora around Ayers Rock.The botanist said that she herself had never seen one before, but after consultingher colleagues she was to report that attempts had been made to introduce theplant at a nursery in Goteborg, and that it might, of course, be cultivated byamateur botanists. lt was difficult to grow in Sweden because it thrived in a dryclimate and had to remain indoors half of the year. lt would not thrive in calcareoussoil and it had to be watered from below. lt needed pampering.
The fact of its being so rare a flower ought to have made it easier to trace the sourceof this particular specimen, but in practice it was an impossible task. There was noregistry to look it up in, no licences to explore. Anywhere from a handful to a fewhundred enthusiasts could have had access to seeds or plants. And those could havechanged hands between friends or been bought by mail order from anywhere inEurope, anywhere in the Antipodes. But it was only one in the series of mystifyingflowers that each year arrived by post on the first day of November. They were alwaysbeautiful and for the most part rare flowers, always pressed, mounted on water-coloupaper in a simple frame measuring six inches by eleven inches.