The Beginning
There are songs that come free from the
blue-eyed grass, from the dust of a thousand
country roads. This is one of them. In late
afternoon, in the autumn of 1989, I'm at my
desk, looking at a blinking cursor on the
computer screen before me, and the telephone
rings.
On the other end of the wire is a former
Iowan named Michael Johnson. He lives in
Florida now. A friend from Iowa has sent him
one of my books. Michael Johnson has read it;
his sister, Carolyn, has read it; and they have a
story in which they think I might be interested.
He is circumspect, refusing to say anything
about the story, except that he and Carolyn are
willing to travel to Iowa to talk with me about
it.
That they are prepared to make such an
effort intrigues me, in spite of my skepticism
about such offers. So I agree to meet with
themin Des Moines the following week. At a Holiday Inn near the airport, the introductions
are made, awkwardness gradually declines,
and the two of them sit across from me, evening coming down outside, light snow
falling.
They extract a promise: If I decide not to
write the story, I must agree never to disclose
what transpired in Madison County, Iowa, in
1965 or other related events that followed over
the next twenty-four years. All right, that's
reasonable. After all, it's their story, not mine.
So I listen. I listen hard, and I ask hard
questions. And they talk. On and on they talk.
Carolyn cries openly at times, Michael
struggles not to. They show me documents
and magazine clippings and a set of journals
written by their mother, Francesca.
Room service comes and goes. Extra coffee
is ordered. As they talk, I begin to see the
images. First you must have the images, then
come the words. And I begin to hear the words,
begin to see them on pages of writing.
Sometime just after midnight, I agree to write
the story--- or at least attempt it.
Their decision to make this information
public was a difficult one for them. The
circumstances are delicate, involving their
mother and, more tangentially, their father.
Michael and Carolyn recognized that coming
forth with the story might result in tawdry
gossip and unkind debasement of whatever