The boundaries of our country, sir? Why sir, on the north we are bounded by the Aurora
Borealis, on the east we are bounded by the rising sun, on the south we are bounded by
the procession of the Equinoxes, and on the west by the Day of Judgment.
—The American Joe Miller’s Jest Book
Shadow had done three years in prison. He was big enough and looked don’t-fuck-with-me enough
that his biggest problem was killing time. So he kept himself in shape, and taught himself coin tricks,
and thought a lot about how much he loved his wife.
The best thing—in Shadow’s opinion, perhaps the only good thing—about being in prison was a
feeling of relief. The feeling that he’d plunged as low as he could plunge and he’d hit bottom. He
didn’t worry that the man was going to get him, because the man had got him. He was no longer
scared of what tomorrow might bring, because yesterday had brought it.
It did not matter, Shadow decided, if you had done what you had been convicted of or not. In his
experience everyone he met in prison was aggrieved about something: there was always something
the authorities had got wrong, something they said you did when you didn’t—or you didn’t do quite
like they said you did. What was important was that they had gotten you.
He had noticed it in the first few days, when everything, from the slang to the bad food, was new.
Despite the misery and the utter skin-crawling horror of incarceration, he was breathing relief.
Shadow tried not to talk too much. Somewhere around the middle of year two he mentioned his
theory to Low Key Lyesmith, his cellmate.
Low Key, who was a grifter from Minnesota, smiled his scarred smile. “Yeah,” he said. “That’s
true. It’s even better when you’ve been sentenced to death. That’s when you remember the jokes about
the guys who kicked their boots off as the noose flipped around their necks, because their friends
always told them they’d die with their boots on.”
“Is that a joke?” asked Shadow.
“Damn right. Gallows humor. Best kind there is.”
“When did they last hang a man in this state?” asked Shadow.
“How the hell should I know?” Lyesmith kept his orange-blond hair pretty much shaved. You could
see the lines of his skull. “Tell you what, though. This country started going to hell when they stopped
hanging folks. No gallows dirt. No gallows deals.”
Shadow shrugged. He could see nothing romantic in a death sentence.
If you didn’t have a death sentence, he decided, then prison was, at best, only a temporary reprieve
from life, for two reasons. First, life creeps back into prison. There are always places to go further
down. Life goes on. And second, if you just hang in there, someday they’re going to have to let you
out.
In the beginning it was too far away for Shadow to focus on. Then it became a distant beam of
hope, and he learned how to tell himself “this too shall pass” when the prison shit went down, as
prison shit always did. One day the magic door would open and he’d walk through it. So he marked