Chapter One
Plaka, 2001
Unfurled from its mooring, the rope flew through the air and sprayed the
woman’s bare arms with droplets of seawater. They soon dried, and as the sun beat
down on her from a cloudless sky she noticed that her skin sparkled with intricate
patterns of salty crystals, like a tattoo in diamonds. Alexis was the only passenger in
the small, battered boat, and as it chugged away from the quay in the direction of
the lonely, unpeopled island ahead of them she shuddered, as she thought of all the
men and women who had travelled there before her. Spinalonga. She played with
the word, rolling it around her tongue like an olive stone. The island lay directly
ahead, and as the boat approached the great Venetian fortification which fronted
the sea, she felt both the pull of its past and an overpowering sense of what it still
meant in the present. This, she speculated, might be a place where history was still
warm, not stone cold, where the inhabitants were real not mythical. How different
that would make it from the ancient palaces and sites she had spent the past few
weeks, months—even years—visiting.
Alexis could have spent another day clambering over the ruins of Knossos,
conjuring up in her mind from those chunky fragments how life had been lived there
over four thousand years before. Of late, however, she had begun to feel that this
was a past so remote as to be almost beyond the reach of her imagination, and
certainly beyond her caring. Though she had a degree in archaeology and a job in a
museum, she felt her interest in the subject waning by the day. Her father was an
academic with a passion for his subject, and in a childlike way she had simply grown
up to believe she would follow in his dusty footsteps. To someone like Marcus
Fielding there was no ancient civilisation too far in the past to arouse his interest,
but for Alexis, now twenty-­‐five, the bullock she had passed on the road earlier that
day had considerably more reality and relevance to her life than the Minotaur at the
centre of the legendary Cretan labyrinth ever could.
The direction her career was taking was not, currently, the burning issue in
her life. More pressing was her dilemma over Ed. All the while they soaked up the
steady warmth of the late summer rays on their Greek island holiday, a line was
slowly being drawn under the era of a once promising love affair. Theirs was a
relationship that had blossomed in the rarefied microcosm of a university, but in the
outside world it had withered and, three years on, was like a sickly cutting that had
failed to survive being transplanted from greenhouse to border.
Ed was handsome. This was a matter of fact rather than opinion. But it was his
good looks that sometimes annoyed her as much as anything and she was certain
that they added to his air of arrogance and his sometimes enviable self-­‐belief.