A WOMAN ON THE STREET
I WAS SITTING IN a taxi, wondering if I had overdressed for the
evening, when I looked out the window and saw Mom rooting through a
Dumpster. It was just after dark. A blustery March wind whipped the
steam coming out of the manholes, and people hurried along the
sidewalks with their collars turned up. I was stuck in traffic two blocks
from the party where I was heading.
Mom stood fifteen feet away. She had tied rags around her shoulders to
keep out the spring chill and was picking through the trash while her
dog, a black-and-white terrier mix, played at her feet. Mom's gestures
were all familiar—the way she tilted her head and thrust out her lower
lip when studying items of potential value that she'd hoisted out of the
Dumpster, the way her eyes widened with childish glee when she found
something she liked. Her long hair was streaked with gray, tangled and
matted, and her eyes had sunk deep into their sockets, but still she
reminded me of the mom she'd been when I was a kid, swan-diving off
cliffs and painting in the desert and reading Shakespeare aloud. Her
cheekbones were still high and strong, but the skin was parched and
ruddy from all those winters and summers exposed to the elements. To
the people walking by, she probably looked like any of the thousands of
homeless people in New York City.
It had been months since I laid eyes on Mom, and when she looked up, I
was overcome with panic that she'd see me and call out my name, and that someone on the way to the same party would spot us together and
Mom would introduce herself and my secret would be out.
I slid down in the seat and asked the driver to turn around and take me
home to Park Avenue.
The taxi pulled up in front of my building, the doorman held the door for
me, and the elevator man took me up to my floor. My husband was
working late, as he did most nights, and the apartment was silent except
for the click of my heels on the polished wood floor. I was still rattled
from seeing Mom, the unexpectedness of coming across her, the sight of
her rooting happily through the Dumpster. I put some Vivaldi on, hoping
the music would settle me down.
I looked around the room. There were the turn-of-the-century bronzeand-silver vases and the old books with worn leather spines that I'd
collected at flea markets. There were the Georgian maps I'd had framed,
the Persian rugs, and the overstuffed leather armchair I liked to sink into
at the end of the day. I'd tried to make a home for myself here, tried to
turn the apartment into the sort of place where the person I wanted to be
would live. But I could never enjoy the room without worrying about
Mom and Dad huddled on a sidewalk grate somewhere. I fretted about
them, but I was embarrassed by them, too, and ashamed of myself for
wearing pearls and living on Park Avenue while my parents were busy
keeping warm and finding something to eat.
What could I do? I'd tried to help them countless times, but Dad would
insist they didn't need anything, and Mom would ask for something silly,
like a perfume atomizer or a membership in a health club. They said that
they were living the way they wanted to.
After ducking down in the taxi so Mom wouldn't see me, I hated myself
—hated my antiques, my clothes, and my apartment. I had to do
something, so I called a friend of Mom's and left a message. It was our