 She lay on her back fastened by leather straps to a narrow bed with a steel
frame. The harness was tight across her rib cage. Her hands were manacled to the
sides of the bed.
 She had long since given up trying to free herself. She was awake, but her eyes
were closed. If she opened her eyes she would find herself in darkness; the only
light was a faint strip that seeped in above the door. She had a bad taste in her
mouth and longed to be able to brush her teeth.
 She was listening for the sound of footsteps, which would mean he was coming.
She had no idea how late at night it was, but she sensed that it was getting too
late for him to visit her. A sudden vibration in the bed made her open her eyes. It
was as if a machine of some sort had started up somewhere in the building. After
a few seconds she was no longer sure whether she was imagining it.
 She marked off another day in her head.
 It was the forty-third day of her imprisonment.
 Her nose itched and she turned her head so that she could rub it against the
pillow. She was sweating. It was airless and hot in the room. She had on a simple
nightdress that was bunching up beneath her. If she moved her hips she could
just hold the cloth with her first two fingers and pull the nightdress down on one
side, an inch or so at a time. She did the same on the other side. But there was
still a fold under the small of her back. The mattress was lumpy. Her isolation
sharply amplified all the tiny sensations that she would not otherwise have 
noticed. The harness was loose enough that she could change position and lie on
her side, but that was uncomfortable because then she had to keep one hand
behind her, which made her arm keep going to sleep.
 She was not afraid. But she did feel a great pent-up rage.
 At the same time she was troubled by unpleasant fantasies about what was
going to happen to her. She detested this helplessness. No matter how hard she
tried to concentrate on something else—to pass the time and to distract her from
the situation she was in—the fear came trickling out. It hovered like a cloud of gas
around her, threatening to penetrate her pores and poison her. She had
discovered that the most effective method of keeping the fear at bay was to
fantasize about something that gave her a feeling of strength. She closed her eyes
and conjured up the smell of gasoline.
 He was sitting in a car with the window rolled down. She ran to the car, poured
the gasoline through the window, and lit a match. It took only a moment. The flames
blazed up. He writhed in agony and she heard his screams of terror and pain. She
could smell burned flesh and a more acrid stench of plastic and upholstery turning
to carbon in the seats.
 She must have dozed off, because she did not hear the footsteps, but she was
wide awake when the door opened. The light from the doorway blinded her.
 He had come, at any rate.
 He was tall. She did not know how old he was, but he had reddish-brown,
tangled hair and a sparse goatee, and he wore glasses with black frames. He
smelled of aftershave.
 She hated the smell of him.
 He stood at the foot of the bed and observed her for a long time.
 She hated his silence.
 She could see him only in silhouette from the light in the doorway. Then he
spoke to her. He had a dark, clear voice that stressed, pedantically, each word.
 She hated his voice.
 He told her that it was her birthday and he wanted to wish her happy birthday.
His tone was not unfriendly or ironical. It was neutral. She thought that he was
smiling.
 She hated him.
 He came closer and went around to the head of the bed. He laid the back of a
moist hand on her forehead and ran his fingers along her hairline in a gesture that
was probably intended to be friendly. It was his birthday present to her.
 She hated his touch.
 She saw his mouth move, but she shut out the sound of his voice. She did not
want to listen. She did not want to answer. She heard him raise his voice. A hint
of irritation at her failure to respond. He talked about mutual trust. After a few
minutes he stopped. She ignored his gaze. Then he shrugged and began adjusting
her leather straps. He tightened the harness across her chest a bit and leaned over
her. 
She twisted suddenly to the left, away from him, as abruptly as she could and
as far as the straps would allow. She pulled up her knees to her chin and kicked
hard at his head. She aimed at his Adam’s apple and the tip of her toe hit him 