THERE WASAHAND IN the darkness, and it held
a knife.
The knife had a handle of polished black bone,
and a blade finer and sharper than any razor. If it
sliced you, you might not even know you had
been cut, not immediately
The knife had donealmosteverything it was
brought to that house to do, and both the blade
and the handle were wet.
The street door was still open, just a little,
where the knife and the man who held it had
slipped in, and wisps of nighttime mist slithered
and twined into the housethrough the open door
The man Jack paused on the landing. With
his left hand he pulled a large white handkerchief
fromthe pocket of his black coat, and with it he
wiped off the knife and his gloved right hand
which had been holding it; then he put the
handkerchief away. The hunt was almost over.
He had left the woman in her bed, the man on the
bedroom floor, the older child in her brightly
colored bedroom, surrounded by toys and halffinished models. That only left the little one, a
baby barely atoddler, to takecare of. One more
and his task would be done.
He flexed his fingers. The man Jack was,
above all things, a professional, or so he told
himself, and he would not allow himself to smile
untilthejob wascompleted.
His hair was dark and his eyes were dark
and he wore black leather gloves of the thinnest
lambskin.
The toddler’s room was at the very top of
the house. The man Jack walked up thestairs, his
feet silent on the carpeting. Then he pushed open
the attic door, and he walked in. His shoes were
black leather, and they were polished to such a
shine that they looked like dark mirrors: you
could see the moon reflected in them, tiny and
halffull.
The real moon shone through the casement
window. Its light was not bright, and it was
diffused by the mist, but the man Jack would not
need much light. The moonlight was enough. It
would do.
He could make out the shape of the child in
thecrib, head and limbsand torso.
The crib had high, slatted sides to prevent
the child from getting out. Jack leaned over,
raised his right hand, the one holding the knife,
and heaimed for thechest…
…and then he lowered his hand. The shape
in thecrib wasateddy bear. There was no child.
The man Jack’s eyes were accustomed to
the dimmoonlight, so he had no desire to turn on
an electric light. And light was not that important,
afterall. He had other skills.
The man Jack sniffed theair. Heignored the
scents that had come into the room with him,
dismissed the scents that he could safely ignore,
honed in on the smell ofthe thing he had come to
find. He could smell the child:a milky smell, like
chocolate chip cookies, and the sour tang of a
wet, disposable, nighttime diaper. He could smell
the baby shampoo in its hair, and something small
and rubbery—a toy, he thought, and then, no,
something to suck—that the child had been
carrying.
The child had been here. It was here no
longer. The man Jack followed his nose down the
stairs through the middle of the tall, thin house.
He inspected the bathroom, the kitchen, the
airing cupboard, and, finally, the downstairs hall,
in which there was nothing to be seen but the
family’s bicycles, a pile ofempty shopping bags,
a fallen diaper, and the stray tendrils of fog that
had insinuated themselves into the hall from the
open door to thestreet.
The man Jack made a small noise then, a
grunt that contained in it both frustration and also
satisfaction. He slipped the knife into its sheath in
theinside pocket of his long coat,and hestepped
out into the street. There was moonlight, and
there were streetlights, but the fog stifled
everything, muted light and muffled sound and
made the night shadowy and treacherous. He
looked down the hill towards the light of the
closed shops, then up the street, where the last
high houses wound up the hill on their way to the
darkness ofthe old graveyard.
The man Jack sniffed the air. Then, without
hurrying, he began to walk up the hill.
Ever since the child had learned to walk he had
been his mother’s and father’s despair and
delight, for there never was such a boy for
wandering, for climbing up things, for getting into
and out of things. That night, he had beenwoken
by the sound of something on the floor beneath
himfallingwith a crash. Awake, he soon became
bored, and had begun looking for a way out of
his crib. It had high sides, like the walls of his
playpen downstairs, but he was convinced that
hecould scaleit. All he needed wasastep…
He pulled his large, golden teddy bear into
the corner of the crib, then, holding the railing in
his tiny hands, he put his foot onto the bear’s lap,
the other foot up on the bear’s head, and he
pulled himself up into a standing position, and
then he half-climbed, half-toppled over the railing
and out ofthecrib.
He landed with a muffled thump on a small
mound of furry, fuzzy toys, some of them
presents fromrelations fromhis first birthday, not
sixmonths gone, some of theminherited fromhis
older sister. He was surprised when he hit the
floor, but he did not cry out: if you cried they
cameand put you back in yourcrib.
Hecrawled out oftheroom.
Stairs that went up were tricky things, and
he had not yet entirelymastered them. Stairs that
went down however, he had discovered, were
fairly simple. He did themsitting down, bumping
fromstep to step on his well-padded bottom.
He sucked on his nummer, the rubber
pacifier his mother had just begun to tell himthat
he was getting too old for.