Chapter One
At night I would lie in bed and watch the show, how bees squeezed through the cracks
of my bedroom wall and flew circles around the room, making that propeller sound, a
high-pitched zzzzzz that hummed along my skin. I watched their wings shining like bits
of chrome in the dark and felt the longing build in my chest. The way those bees flew,
not even looking for a flower, just flying for the feel of the wind, split my heart down its
seam.
During the day I heard them tunneling through the walls of my bedroom, sounding like a
radio tuned to static in the next room, and I imagined them in there turning the walls into
honeycombs, with honey seeping out for me to taste.
The bees came the summer of 1964, the summer I turned fourteen and my life went
spinning off into a whole new orbit, and I mean whole new orbit. Looking back on now,
I want to say the bees were sent to me. I want to say they showed up like the angel
Gabriel appearing to the Virgin Mary, setting events in motion I could never have
guessed. I know it is presumptuous to compare my small life to hers, but I have reason to
believe she wouldn't mind; I will get to that. Right now it's enough to say that despite
everything that happened that summer, I remain tender toward the bees.
July 1, 1964, I lay in bed, waiting for the bees to show up, thinking of what Rosaleen
had said when I told her about their nightly visitations.
"Bees swarm before death," she'd said.
Rosaleen had worked for us since my mother died. My daddy—who I called T. Ray
because "Daddy" never fit him—had pulled her out of the peach orchard, where she'd
worked as one of his pickers. She had a big round face and a body that sloped out from
her neck like a pup tent, and she was so black that night seemed to seep from her skin.
She lived alone in a little house tucked back in the woods, not far from us, and came
every day to cook, clean, and be my stand-in mother. Rosaleen had never had a child
herself, so for the last ten years I'd been her pet guinea pig.
Bees swarm before death. She was full of crazy ideas that I ignored, but I lay there
thinking about this one, wondering if the bees had come with my death in mind.
Honestly, I wasn't that disturbed by the idea. Every one of those bees could have
descended on me like a flock of angels and stung me till I died, and it wouldn't have
been the worst thing to happen. People who think dying is the worst thing don't know a
thing about life.
My mother died when I was four years old. It was a fact of life, but if I brought it up,
people would suddenly get interested in their hangnails and cuticles, or else distant
places in the sky, and seem not to hear me. Once in a while, though, some caring soul
would say, "Just put it out of your head, Lily. It was an accident. You didn't mean to do
it."
That night I lay in bed and thought about dying and going tobe with my mother in
paradise. I would meet her saying,"Mother, forgive. Please forgive," and she would kiss
my skin tillit grew chapped and tell me I was not to blame. She would tell methis for the
first ten thousand years.
The next ten thousand years she would fix my hair. She wouldbrush it into such a tower
of beauty, people all over heaven would drop their harps just to admire it. You can tell
which girls lack mothers by the look of their hair. My hair was constantly going off in
eleven wrong directions, and T. Ray, naturally, refused to buy me bristle rollers, so all
year I'd had to roll it on Welch's grape juice cans, which had nearly turned me into an
insomniac. I was always having to choose between decent hair and a good night's sleep.
I decided I would take four or five centuries to tell her about the special misery of living
with T. Ray. He had an orneriness year-round, but especially in the summer, when he
worked his peach orchards daylight to dusk. Mostly I stayed out of his way. His only
kindness was for Snout, his bird dog, who slept in his bed and got her stomach scratched
anytime she rolled onto her wiry back. I've seen Snout pee on T. Ray's boot and it not
get a rise out of him.