Chapter 1 The Accident
High in the woods that morning, snow covered the ground and
ice hung from the trees. There was a silence and calm that you
could almost touch; no bird or animal spoke.
Into this silence came two horses, one brown and one black,
walking through the deep snow. Their riders, two girls of thirteen
and fourteen, were laughing.
The older girl, Judith, was leading the way on Gulliver, the
brown horse, and looking back over her shoulder at Pilgrim.
'Look at him, Grace! He's so funny.'
Grace was laughing too much to reply. Her horse was walking
with his head down, pushing his nose through the snow. Every
now and then he suddenly lifted his head and threw the snow
into the air. Then he jumped playfully when it fell.
'That's enough, you!' Grace told him finally.
They made their way slowly down through the woods to an
old road that was not often used now. A river ran along the side
of it. They were looking for an old railway bridge that passed
over the river.
'There it is.' Judith saw the bridge.
The path up from the road was very steep.
Judith went first. Her horse, Gulliver, took a few steps and
then stopped.
'Up we go, boy,' Judith told him.
Gulliver felt the ground with his foot and then continued to
climb. When her friend was almost at the top, Grace started to
follow on Pilgrim.
'How is it?' she called.
'It's not too bad,' replied Judith. 'But go slowly.'
Suddenly Grace heard the sound of Gulliver's shoe hitting ice Judith gave a loud cry. Then Gulliver dropped to his knees and
fell back down towards the road.
Grace tried to move Pilgrim out of the way, but there was no
time. Gulliver hit Pilgrim hard and both horses and their riders
landed in the road. Judith was hanging from the horse by one
foot. Then her head hit the hard ice and she stopped moving.
Suddenly a large truck came round the corner. The driver saw
the horses in front of him, but it was too late; he couldn't stop
quickly enough on the icy road. What were those children
doing? Couldn't they hear him? Couldn't they see him?
Grace, holding tightly onto Pilgrim's back, could see the
truck. She tried to reach Gulliver and lead him and Judith off the
road. She pulled at Pilgrim and turned him towards the other
horse. But there was not enough time. The truck was almost on
top of them. Then the driver sounded his horn.
Pilgrim seemed to go crazy. He lifted his front legs towards the
truck, and Grace was thrown into the road.
For years afterwards the truck driver had a clear memory of
that moment. The horse's face was covered in blood, and his eyes
were wild. He seemed to throw himself against the front window
of the truck. Then the driver saw nothing more through the
broken glass. He could not stop the truck. It continued to move
across the ice before it finally came to a stop under the bridge.
•
Grace's father, Robert, got back from the shops and found two
messages on the answering machine of his weekend home in
Chatham. One was from Annie, his wife, who was working late in
New York. The other was from Mrs Dyer, at the stables where they
kept Pilgrim. Something in Mrs Dyer's voice made Robert go cold.
Soon afterwards he was on the telephone to his wife at her office.
Grace was in hospital, he told Annie quietly. She was very badly
hurt. Her friend Judith was dead.