Chapter 1
Checkpoint.
The American handed Leamas another cup of coffee and said, ‘Why don’t you go
back and sleep? We can ring you if he shows up.’
 Leamas said nothing, just stared through the window of the checkpoint, along
the empty street.
 ‘You can’t wait for ever, sir. Maybe he’ll come some other time. We can have the
polizei contact the Agency: you can be back here in twenty minutes.’
 ‘No,’ said Leamas, ‘it’s nearly dark now.’
 ‘But you can’t wait for ever; he’s nine hours over schedule.’
 ‘If you want to go, go. You’ve been very good,’ Leamas added. ‘I’ll tell Kramer
you’ve been damn’ good.’
 ‘But how long will you wait?’
 ‘Until he comes.’ Leamas walked to the observation window and stood between
the two motionless policemen. Their binoculars were trained on the Eastern
checkpoint.
 ‘He’s waiting for the dark,’ Leamas muttered. ‘I know he is.’
 ‘This morning you said he’d come across with the workmen.’ Leamas turned on
him.
 ‘Agents aren’t aeroplanes. They don’t have schedules. He’s blown, he’s on the
run, he’s frightened. Mundt’s after him, now, at this moment. He’s only got one
chance. Let him choose his time.’
 The younger man hesitated, wanting to go and not finding the moment.
 A bell rang inside the hut. They waited, suddenly alert. A policeman said in
German, ‘Black Opel Rekord, Federal registration.’
 ‘He can’t see that far in the dusk, he’s guessing,’ the American whispered and
then he added: ‘How did Mundt know?’
‘Shut up,’ said Leamas from the window. One of the policemen left the hut and
walked to the sandbag emplacement two feet short of the white demarcation which
lay across the road like the base line of a tennis court. The other waited until his
companion was crouched behind the telescope in the emplacement, then put down
his binoculars, took his black helmet from the peg by the door and carefully
adjusted it on his head. Somewhere high above the checkpoint the arclights
sprang to life, casting theatrical beams on to the road in front of them.
 The policeman began his commentary. Leamas knew it by heart.
 ‘Car halts at the first control. Only one occupant, a woman. Escorted to the
Vopo hut for document check.’ They waited in silence.
 ‘What’s he saying?’ said the American. Leamas didn’t reply. Picking up a spare
pair of binoculars, he gazed fixedly towards the East German controls.
 ‘Document check completed. Admitted to the second control.’
 ‘Mr Leamas, is this your man?’ the American persisted. ‘I ought to ring the
Agency.’
 ‘Wait.’
 ‘Where’s the car now? What’s it doing?’
 ‘Currency check, Customs,’ Leamas snapped.
 Leamas watched the car. There were two Vopos at the driver’s door, one doing
the talking, the other standing off, waiting. A third was sauntering round the car.
He stopped at the boot, then walked back to the driver. He wanted the key. He
opened the boot, looked inside, closed it, returned the key and walked thirty yards
up the road to where, midway between the two opposing checkpoints, a solitary
East German sentry was standing, a squat silhouette in boots and baggy trousers.
The two stood together talking, selfconscious in the glare of the arclight.
 With a perfunctory gesture they waved the car on. It reached the two sentries in
the middle of the road and stopped again. They walked round the car, stood off
and talked again; finally, almost unwillingly, they let it continue across the line to
the Western sector.