PART 1: TO BE READ BEFORE PURCHASE
There are a couple of things you need to know about this version of
The Stand right away, even before you leave the bookstore. For that
reason I hope Iʼve caught you early—hopefully standing there by the K
section of new fiction, with your other purchases tucked under your arm
and the book open in front of you. In other words, I hope Iʼve caught
you while your wallet is still safely in your pocket. Ready? Okay; thanks.
I promise to be brief.
First, this is not a new novel. If you hold misapprehensions on that
score, let them be dispelled right here and right now, while you are still
a safe distance from the cash register which will take money out of your
pocket and put it in mine. The Stand was originally published over ten
years ago.
Second, this is not a brand-new, entirely different version of The Stand.
You will not discover old characters behaving in new ways, nor will the
course of the tale branch off at some point from the old narrative, taking
you, Constant Reader, in an entirely different direction.
This version of The Stand is an expansion of the original novel. As Iʼve
said, you wonʼt find old characters behaving in strange new ways, but
you will discover that almost all of the characters were, in the bookʼs
original form, doing more things, and if I didnʼt think some of those
things were interesting—perhaps even enlightening—I would never have
agreed to this project.
If this is not what you want, donʼt buy this book. If you have bought it
already, I hope you saved your sales receipt. The bookshop where you
made your purchase will want it before granting you credit or a cash
refund.
If this expansion is something you want, I invite you to come along
with me just a little farther. I have lots to tell you, and I think we can
talk better around the corner.
In the dark.
PART 2: TO BE READ AFTER PURCHASE
This is not so much a Preface, actually, as it is an explanation of why
this new version of The Stand exists at all. It was a long novel to begin
with, and this expanded version will be regarded by some—perhaps
many—as an act of indulgence by an author whose works have been
successful enough to allow it. I hope not, but Iʼd have to be pretty stupid
not to realize that such criticism is in the offing. After all, many critics of
the novel regarded it bloated and overlong to begin with.
Whether the book was too long to begin with, or has become so in this
edition, is a matter I leave to the individual reader. I only wanted to take
this little space to say that I am republishing The Stand as it was
originally written not to serve myself or any individual reader, but to
serve a body of readers who have asked to have it. I would not offer it if
I myself didnʼt think those portions which were dropped from the
original manuscript made the story a richer one, and Iʼd be a liar if I
didnʼt admit I am curious as to what its reception will be.
Iʼll spare you the story of how The Stand came to be written—the
chain of thought which produces a novel rarely interests anyone but
aspiring novelists. They tend to believe there is a “secret formula” to
writing a commercially successful novel, but there isnʼt. You get an idea;
at some point another idea kicks in; you make a connection or a series of
them between ideas; a few characters (usually little more than shadows
at first) suggest themselves; a possible ending occurs to the writerʼs mind
(although when the ending comes, itʼs rarely much like the one the
writer envisioned); and at some point, the novelist sits down with a
paper and pen, a typewriter, or a word cruncher. When asked, “How do
you write?” I invariably answer, “One word at a time,” and the answer is
invariably dismissed. But that is all it is. It sounds too simple to be true,
but consider the Great Wall of China, if you will: one stone at a time,
man. Thatʼs all. One stone at a time. But Iʼve read you can see that
motherfucker from space without a telescope.