Chapter 1
LOG ENTRY: SOL 6
I’m pretty much fucked.
That’s my considered opinion.
Fucked.
Six days in to what should be a greatest two months of my life, and it’s turned in
to a nightmare.
I don’t even know who’l read this. I guess someone wil find it eventualy. Maybe
a hundred years from now.
For the record… I didn’t die on Sol 6. Certainly the rest of the crew thought I
did, and I can’t blame them. Maybe there’l be a day of
national mourning for me, and my Wikipedia page wil say “Mark Watney is the
only human being to have died on Mars.”
And it’l be right, probably. Cause I’l surely die here. Just not on Sol 6 when
everyone thinks I did.
Let’s see… where do I begin?
The Ares program. Mankind reaching out to Mars to send people to another
planet for the very first time and expand the horizons of
humanity blah, blah, blah. The Ares 1 crew did their thing and came back
heroes. They got the parades and fame and love of the world.
Ares 2 did the same thing, in a different location on Mars. They got a firm
handshake and a hot cup of coffee when they got home.
Ares 3. Wel. That was my mission. Wel, not mine per se. Commander Lewis was
in charge. I was just one of her crew. Actualy, I was the very lowest ranked member of the crew. l would only be “in command’of the mission if l were the only remaining person.
What do you know? I'm in command.
I wonder if this log wil be recovered before the rest of the crew die of old age? lpresume they got back to Earth al right. Wel, guys, if you're reading this: ltwasn't your fault. You did what you had to do. In your position I would havedone the same thing. l don't blame you, and I'm glad you survived.
I guess I should explain how Mars missions work, for any layman who may bereading this. We got to earth orbit the normal way,
through an ordinary ship to Hermes. Al the Ares missions use Hermes to get toand from Mars. It's realy big and cost a lot so NASA only
built one.
Once we got to Hermes, four additional unmanned missions brought us fuel andsupplies while we prepared for our trip. Once
everything was a go, we set out for Mars. But not very fast. Gone are the days ofheavy chemical fuel burns and trans-Mars injection