December 2001_
I became what I am today at the age of twelve, on a frigid overcast day in the
winter of 1975. I remember the precise moment, crouching behind a crumbling mud
wall, peeking into the alley near the frozen creek. That was a long time ago,
but it’s wrong what they say about the past, I’ve learned, about how you can
bury it. Because the past claws its way out. Looking back now, I realize I have
been peeking into that deserted alley for the last twenty-six years.
One day last summer, my friend Rahim Khan called from Pakistan. He asked me to
come see him. Standing in the kitchen with the receiver to my ear, I knew it
wasn’t just Rahim Khan on the line. It was my past of unatoned sins. After I
hung up, I went for a walk along Spreckels Lake on the northern edge of Golden
Gate Park. The early-afternoon sun sparkled on the water where dozens of
miniature boats sailed, propelled by a crisp breeze. Then I glanced up and saw a
pair of kites, red with long blue tails, soaring in the sky. They danced high
above the trees on the west end of the park, over the windmills, floating side
by side like a pair of eyes looking down on San Francisco, the city I now call
home. And suddenly Hassan’s voice whispered in my head: _For you, a thousand
times over_. Hassan the harelipped kite runner.
I sat on a park bench near a willow tree. I thought about something Rahim Khan
said just before he hung up, almost as an after thought. _There is a way to be
good again_. I looked up at those twin kites. I thought about Hassan. Thought
about Baba. Ali. Kabul. I thought of the life I had lived until the winter of
1975 came and changed everything. And made me what I am today.
TWO
When we were children, Hassan and I used to climb the poplar trees in the
driveway of my father’s house and annoy our neighbors by reflecting sunlight
into their homes with a shard of mirror. We would sit across from each other on
a pair of high branches, our naked feet dangling, our trouser pockets filled
with dried mulberries and walnuts. We took turns with the mirror as we ate
mulberries, pelted each other with them, giggling, laughing; I can still see
Hassan up on that tree, sunlight flickering through the leaves on his almost
perfectly round face, a face like a Chinese doll chiseled from hardwood: his
flat, broad nose and slanting, narrow eyes like bamboo leaves, eyes that looked,
depending on the light, gold, green, even sapphire I can still see his tiny low-
set ears and that pointed stub of a chin, a meaty appendage that looked like it
was added as a mere afterthought. And the cleft lip, just left of midline, where
the Chinese doll maker’s instrument may have slipped; or perhaps he had simply
grown tired and careless.
Sometimes, up in those trees, I talked Hassan into firing walnuts with his
slingshot at the neighbor’s one-eyed German shepherd. Hassan never wanted to,
but if I asked, _really_ asked, he wouldn’t deny me. Hassan never denied me
anything. And he was deadly with his slingshot. Hassan’s father, Ali, used to
catch us and get mad, or as mad as someone as gentle as Ali could ever get. He
would wag his finger and wave us down from the tree. He would take the mirror
and tell us what his mother had told him, that the devil shone mirrors too,
shone them to distract Muslims during prayer. “And he laughs while he does it,”
he always added, scowling at his son.