ARRIVAL, ON HIMMEL STREET

How does a book thief end up kneeling and howling and flanked bya man-made heap ofridiculous, greasy, cooked-up rubble?Years earlier, the start was snow.The time had come. For one.
...A SPECTACULARLY TRAGIC MOMENT...
A train was moving quickly.
It was packed with humans.
A six-year-old boy died in the third carriage.
The book thief and her brother were traveling down toward Munich.where they would soon be given over to foster parents. We nowknow, of course, that the boy didn't make it.
*..HOW IT HAPPENED..*There was an intense spurt of coughingAlmost an inspired spurt.And soon after-nothing.
When the coughing stopped, there was nothing but the nothingness oflife moving on with a shuffle, or a near-silent twitch. A suddennessfound its way onto his lips then, which were a corroded brown colorand peeling, like old paint, In desperate need of redoing.Their mother was asleep.
I entered the train.
My feet stepped through the cluttered aisle and my palm was overhis mouth in an instant. No one noticed. The train galloped on.Except the girl..
With one eye open, one still in a dream, the book thief-also knownas Liesel Meminger could see without question that her youngerbrother, Werner, was now sideways and dead.His blue eyes stared at the floor.
Seeing nothing.
Prior to waking up, the book thief was dreaming about the Ftihrer.Adolf Hitler. In the dream, she was attending a rally at which hespoke, looking at the skull-colored part in his hair and the perfectsquare of his mustache. She was listening contentedly to the torrentof words spilling from his mouth, Hlis sentences glowed in the light. Ina quieter moment, he actually crouched down and smiled at her. Shereturned the smile and said,“Guten Tag, Herr Fiihrer. Wie geht's dirheut?" She hadn't learned to speak too well, or even to read, as shehad rarely frequented school, The reason for that she would find outin due course.
Just as the Fiihrer was about to reply, she woke up.
It was January 1939. She was nine years old, soon to be ten.
Her brother was dead.
One eye open.
One still in a dream.
It would be better for a complete dream, I think, but l really haveno control over that.The second eye jumped awake and she caught me out, no doubtabout it. It was exactly when I knelt down and extracted his soul,