Chapter 1
         THE DEPARTURE OF BOROMIR
Aragorn sped on up the hill. Every now and again he bent to
the ground. Hobbits go light, and their footprints are not easy
even for a Ranger to read, but not far from the top a spring
crossed the path, and in the wet earth he saw what he was
seeking.
    ‘I read the signs aright,’ he said to himself. ‘Frodo ran to
the hill-top. I wonder what he saw there? But he returned by
the same way, and went down the hill again.’
    Aragorn hesitated. He desired to go to the high seat himself,
hoping to see there something that would guide him in his
perplexities; but time was pressing. Suddenly he leaped for-
ward, and ran to the summit, across the great ﬂag-stones,
and up the steps. Then sitting in the high seat he looked out.
But the sun seemed darkened, and the world dim and remote.
He turned from the North back again to North, and saw
nothing save the distant hills, unless it were that far away he
could see again a great bird like an eagle high in the air,
descending slowly in wide circles down towards the earth.
    Even as he gazed his quick ears caught sounds in the wood-
lands below, on the west side of the River. He stiffened.
There were cries, and among them, to his horror, he could
distinguish the harsh voices of Orcs. Then suddenly with a
deep-throated call a great horn blew, and the blasts of it
smote the hills and echoed in the hollows, rising in a mighty
shout above the roaring of the falls.
    ‘The horn of Boromir!’ he cried. ‘He is in need!’ He sprang
down the steps and away, leaping down the path. ‘Alas! An
ill fate is on me this day, and all that I do goes amiss. Where
is Sam?’
    As he ran the cries came louder, but fainter now and

538                    the two towers
desperately the horn was blowing. Fierce and shrill rose the
yells of the Orcs, and suddenly the horn-calls ceased. Aragorn
raced down the last slope, but before he could reach the hill’s
foot, the sounds died away; and as he turned to the left and
ran towards them they retreated, until at last he could hear
them no more. Drawing his bright sword and crying Elendil!
Elendil! he crashed through the trees.
   A mile, maybe, from Parth Galen in a little glade not far
from the lake he found Boromir. He was sitting with his back
to a great tree, as if he was resting. But Aragorn saw that he
was pierced with many black-feathered arrows; his sword was
still in his hand, but it was broken near the hilt; his horn
cloven in two was at his side. Many Orcs lay slain, piled all
about him and at his feet.
   Aragorn knelt beside him. Boromir opened his eyes and
strove to speak. At last slow words came. ‘I tried to take the
Ring from Frodo,’ he said. ‘I am sorry. I have paid.’ His
glance strayed to his fallen enemies; twenty at least lay there.
‘They have gone: the Halﬂings: the Orcs have taken them. I
think they are not dead. Orcs bound them.’ He paused and
his eyes closed wearily. After a moment he spoke again.
   ‘Farewell, Aragorn! Go to Minas Tirith and save my
people! I have failed.’
   ‘No!’ said Aragorn, taking his hand and kissing his brow.
‘You have conquered. Few have gained such a victory. Be at
peace! Minas Tirith shall not fall!’
   Boromir smiled.
   ‘Which way did they go? Was Frodo there?’ said Aragorn.
   But Boromir did not speak again.
   ‘Alas!’ said Aragorn. ‘Thus passes the heir of Denethor,
Lord of the Tower of Guard! This is a bitter end. Now the
Company is all in ruin. It is I that have failed. Vain was
Gandalf ’s trust in me. What shall I do now? Boromir has laid
it on me to go to Minas Tirith, and my heart desires it; but
where are the Ring and the Bearer? How shall I ﬁnd them
and save the Quest from disaster?’

                the departure of boromir                   539
   He knelt for a while, bent with weeping, still clasping
Boromir’s hand. So it was that Legolas and Gimli found
him. They came from the western slopes of the hill, silently,
creeping through the trees as if they were hunting. Gimli
had his axe in hand, and Legolas his long knife: all his
arrows were spent. When they came into the glade they
halted in amazement; and then they stood a moment with
heads bowed in grief, for it seemed to them plain what had
happened.
   ‘Alas!’ said Legolas, coming to Aragorn’s side. ‘We have
hunted and slain many Orcs in the woods, but we should
have been of more use here. We came when we heard the
horn – but too late, it seems. I fear you have taken deadly
hurt.’
   ‘Boromir is dead,’ said Aragorn. ‘I am unscathed, for I was
not here with him. He fell defending the hobbits, while I was
away upon the hill.’
   ‘The hobbits!’ cried Gimli. ‘Where are they then? Where
is Frodo?’
   ‘I do not know,’ answered Aragorn wearily. ‘Before he died
Boromir told me that the Orcs had bound them; he did not
think that they were dead. I sent him to follow Merry and
Pippin; but I did not ask him if Frodo or Sam were with him:
not until it was too late. All that I have done today has gone
amiss. What is to be done now?’
   ‘First we must tend the fallen,’ said Legolas. ‘We cannot
leave him lying like carrion among these foul Orcs.’
   ‘But we must be swift,’ said Gimli. ‘He would not wish us
to linger. We must follow the Orcs, if there is hope that any
of our Company are living prisoners.’
   ‘But we do not know whether the Ring-bearer is with them
or not,’ said Aragorn. ‘Are we to abandon him? Must we not
seek him ﬁrst? An evil choice is now before us!’
   ‘Then let us do ﬁrst what we must do,’ said Legolas. ‘We
have not the time or the tools to bury our comrade ﬁtly, or
to raise a mound over him. A cairn we might build.’
   ‘The labour would be hard and long: there are no stones

540                    the two towers
that we could use nearer than the water-side,’ said Gimli.
   ‘Then let us lay him in a boat with his weapons, and the
weapons of his vanquished foes,’ said Aragorn. ‘We will send
him to the Falls of Rauros and give him to Anduin. The
River of Gondor will take care at least that no evil creature
dishonours his bones.’
   Quickly they searched the bodies of the Orcs, gathering
their swords and cloven helms and shields into a heap.
   ‘See!’ cried Aragorn. ‘Here we ﬁnd tokens!’ He picked
out from the pile of grim weapons two knives, leaf-bladed,
damasked in gold and red; and searching further he found
also the sheaths, black, set with small red gems. ‘No orc-tools
these!’ he said. ‘They were borne by the hobbits. Doubtless
the Orcs despoiled them, but feared to keep the knives, know-
ing them for what they are: work of Westernesse, wound
about with spells for the bane of Mordor. Well, now, if they
still live, our friends are weaponless. I will take these things,
hoping against hope, to give them back.’
   ‘And I,’ said Legolas, ‘will take all the arrows that I can
ﬁnd, for my quiver is empty.’ He searched in the pile and on
the ground about and found not a few that were undamaged
and longer in the shaft than such arrows as the Orcs were
accustomed to use. He looked at them closely.
   And Aragorn looked on the slain, and he said: ‘Here lie
many that are not folk of Mordor. Some are from the North,
from the Misty Mountains, if I know anything of Orcs and
their kinds. And here are others strange to me. Their gear is
not after the manner of Orcs at all!’
   There were four goblin-soldiers of greater stature, swart,
slant-eyed, with thick legs and large hands. They were armed
with short broad-bladed swords, not with the curved scimi-
tars usual with Orcs; and they had bows of yew, in length
and shape like the bows of Men. Upon their shields they bore
a strange device: a small white hand in the centre of a black
ﬁeld; on the front of their iron helms was set an S-rune,
wrought of some white metal.