ONE
I ACCIDENTALLY VAPORIZE MY PRE-ALGEBRA TEACHER
Look, I didn’t want to be a half-blood.
If you’re reading this because you think you might be one, my advice is:
close this book right now. Believe whatever lie your mom or dad told you
about your birth, and try to lead a normal life.
Being a half-blood is dangerous. It’s scary. Most of the time, it gets you
killed in painful, nasty ways.
If you’re a normal kid, reading this because you think it’s fiction, great.
Read on. I envy you for being able to believe that none of this ever happened.
But if you recognize yourself in these pages—if you feel something
stirring inside—stop reading immediately. You might be one of us. And once
you know that, it’s only a matter of time before they sense it too, and they’ll
come for you.
Don’t say I didn’t warn you.
My name is Percy Jackson.
I’m twelve years old. Until a few months ago, I was a boarding student at
Yancy Academy, a private school for troubled kids in upstate New York.
Am I a troubled kid?
Yeah. You could say that.
I could start at any point in my short miserable life to prove it, but things
really started going bad last May, when our sixth-grade class took a field trip
to Manhattan—twenty-eight mental-case kids and two teachers on a yellow
school bus, heading to the Metropolitan Museum of Art to look at ancient
Greek and Roman stuff.
I know—it sounds like torture. Most Yancy field trips were.
But Mr. Brunner, our Latin teacher, was leading this trip, so I had hopes.
Mr. Brunner was this middle-aged guy in a motorized wheelchair. He had
thinning hair and a scruffy beard and a frayed tweed jacket, which always
smelled like coffee. You wouldn’t think he’d be cool, but he told stories and
jokes and let us play games in class. He also had this awesome collection of
Roman armor and weapons, so he was the only teacher whose class didn’t put
me to sleep.
I hoped the trip would be okay. At least, I hoped that for once I wouldn’t
get in trouble.
Boy, was I wrong.
See, bad things happen to me on field trips. Like at my fifth-grade school,
when we went to the Saratoga battlefield, I had this accident with a
Revolutionary War cannon. I wasn’t aiming for the school bus, but of course
I got expelled anyway. And before that, at my fourth-grade school, when we
took a behind-the-scenes tour of the Marine World shark pool, I sort of hit the
wrong lever on the catwalk and our class took an unplanned swim. And the
time before that…Well, you get the idea.
This trip, I was determined to be good