Foreword to Historia Calamitatum
(the story of my misfortunes)
Often the hearts of men and women are stirred, as likewise they are soothed in their
sorrows, more by example than by words. Andtherefore, because I too have known some
consolation from speech had with one who was a witness thereof, am I now minded to write of
the sufferings which have sprungout of my misfortunes, forthe eyes of one who,though
absent, is of himself ever a consoler. This I do so that, in comparingyour sorrows with
mine, you may discover that yours are in truth nought, or at the most but of small account,
and so you shall come to bear them more easily.
Peter Abelard
0 NCE you have given up the ghost, everythingfollows with dead certainty, even in the midst
of chaos. From the beginningit was never anything but chaos: it was a fluid which
enveloped me, which I breathed in through the gills. In the sub-strata, where the moon
shone steady and opaque, it was smooth and fecundating; above it was a jangle and a
discord. In everythingI quickly saw the opposite, the contradiction, and between the real
and the unreal the irony, the paradox. I was my own worst enemy.There was nothingI wished
to do which I could just as well not do. Even as a child, when I lacked for nothing, I
wanted to die: I wanted to surrender because I saw no sense in struggling. I felt that
nothingwould be proved, substantiated, added or subtracted by continuing an existence
which I had not asked for. Everybody around me was a failure, or if not a failure,
ridiculous. Especially the successful ones. The successful ones bored me to tears. I was
sympathetic to a fault, but it was not sympathy that made me so. It was a purely negative
quality, a weakness which blossomed at the mere sight of human misery. I never helped any
one expectingthat it would do any good; I helped because I was helpless to do otherwise.
To want to change the condition of affairs seemed futile to me; nothingwould be altered, I
was convinced, except by a change of heart, and who could change the hearts of men? Now and
then a friend was converted; it was somethingto make me puke. I had no more need of God
than He had of me, and if there were one, I often said to myself, I would meet Him calmly
and spit in His face.