Chapter One
It was the summer of 1923, the summer I came down from Cambridge, when despite my aunt's wishes that I
return to Shropshire, I decided my future lay in the capitaland took up a smallflat at Number 14b Bedford
Gardens in Kensington. I remember it now as the mostwonderfulof summers. After years of being
surrounded by fellows, both at schooland at Cambridge, I took great pleasure in my own company. I
enjoyed the London parks,the quiet of the Reading Room at the British Museum; I indulged entire
afternoons strolling the streets ofKensington, outlining to myself plans for my future, pausing once in a
while to admire how here in England, even in the midst of such a greatcity, creepers and ivy are to be found
clinging to the fronts of fine houses.
It was on one such leisurely walk that I encountered quite by chance an old schoolfriend,James
Osbourne, and discovering him to be a neighbour, suggested he callon me when he was next passing.
Although at that point I had yet to receive a single visitor in my rooms, I issued my invitation with
confidence, having chosen the premises with some care. The rent was not high,but my landlady had
furnished the place in a tastefulmanner that evoked an unhurried Victorian past; the drawing room, which
received plenty of sun throughout the first half of the day, contained an ageing sofa as wellas two snug
armchairs, an antique sideboard and an oak bookcase filled with crumbling encyclopaedias - allof which I
was convinced would win the approvalof any visitor. Moreover,almost immediately upon taking the rooms,
I had walked over to Knightsbridge and acquired there a Queen Anne tea service, severalpackets of fine
teas, and a large tin of biscuits. So when Osbourne did happen along one morning a few days later,I was
able to serve out the refreshments with an assurance that neveronce permitted him to suppose he was my
first guest.
For the first fifteen minutes or so, Osbourne moved restlessly around my drawing room, complimenting
me on the premises, examining this and that, looking regularly out of the windows to exclaimat whatever
was going on below. Eventually he flopped down into the sofa,and we were able to exchange news - our
own and that of old schoolfriends. I rememberwe spent a little time discussing the activities of the workers'
unions, before embarking on a long and enjoyable debate on German philosophy, which enabled us to
display to one another the intellectualprowess we each had gained at our respective universities. Then
Osbourne rose and began his pacing again, pronouncing as he did so upon his various plans for the future.
'I've a mind to go into publishing, you know. Newspapers, magazines, that sort of thing. In fact, I fancy
writing a column myself. About politics, social issues. That is, as Isay,if I decide not to go into politics
myself. I say, Banks, do you really have no idea what you want to do? Look, it's allout there for us' - he
indicated the window - 'Surely you have some plans.'
'I suppose so,' Isaid, smiling. 'I have one or two things in mind. I'll let you know in good time.'
'What have you got up your sleeve? Come on,out with it! I'llget it out of you yet!'
But I revealed nothing to him, and before long got him arguing again about philosophy or poetry or
some such thing. Then around noon, Osbourne suddenly remembered a lunch appointment in Piccadilly and
began to gather up his belongings.
It was as he was leaving, he turned at the door, saying:'Look,old chap,I meant to say to you. I'mgoing
along tonight to a bash. It's in honour of Leonard Evershott. The tycoon, you know. An uncle of mine's
giving it. Rather short notice, but I wondered if you'd care tocome along. I'm quite serious. I'd been meaning
to pop over to you long ago, just never got round to it. It'llbe at the Charingworth.'
When I did not reply immediately, he took a step towards me and said:'I thought of you because Iwas
remembering. I was remembering how you always used to quiz me about my being "wellconnected".
Oh, come on! Don't pretend you've forgotten! You used to interrogate me mercilessly. "Well
connected? Just whatdoes (hatmean, wellconnected?"Well, I thought,here's a chance for old Banks to see
"wellconnected"for himself.' Then he shook his head, as though at a memory, saying:'My goodness,you
were suchan odd bird at school.'